- [INTRODUCTION](#introduction)
  - [What Is Roleplaying?](#what-is-roleplaying)
  - [What Is the Märchen Engine?](#what-is-the-märchen-engine)
  - [Iconography](#iconography)
  - [The Core Task Resolution System](#the-core-task-resolution-system)
  - [Referee](#referee)
  - [Characters](#characters)
    - [Player Characters](#player-characters)
      - [Associates, PCs, Heroes](#associates-pcs-heroes)
    - [The Company](#the-company)
      - [First Meeting](#first-meeting)
      - [Relationships](#relationships)
      - [Rating](#rating)
      - [Patron](#patron)
    - [Other Characters](#other-characters)
      - [Companion](#companion)
      - [Allies](#allies)
      - [Contacts](#contacts)
      - [Rivals](#rivals)
      - [Enemies](#enemies)
      - [Hirelings](#hirelings)
        - [Mercenaries](#mercenaries)
        - [Retainers](#retainers)
        - [Specialists](#specialists)
  - [Creating Characters](#creating-characters)
    - [Aspects](#aspects)
      - [Example](#example)
    - [Characteristics](#characteristics)
      - [Example](#example-1)
    - [Knowledge Areas -](#knowledge-areas--)
        - [Table: Skill and Specialization Level](#table-skill-and-specialization-level)
      - [Skilled](#skilled)
        - [Example](#example-2)
      - [Competency](#competency)
        - [Example](#example-3)
    - [Careers](#careers)
  - [Game Play](#game-play)
    - [Game Play Processes](#game-play-processes)
      - [The Basic Game Play Process](#the-basic-game-play-process)
      - [Other Game Play Processes](#other-game-play-processes)
    - [Game Play Mechanics](#game-play-mechanics)
      - [Die Rolls](#die-rolls)
        - [Difficulty and Effect](#difficulty-and-effect)
          - [Table: Task Difficulties](#table-task-difficulties)
          - [Table: Degrees of Effect](#table-degrees-of-effect)
          - [Degrees of Effect Defined](#degrees-of-effect-defined)
      - [Types of Checks](#types-of-checks)
        - [Passive Checks](#passive-checks)
        - [Active Checks](#active-checks)
          - [Aspect Checks](#aspect-checks)
          - [Characteristics Checks](#characteristics-checks)
          - [Skill Checks](#skill-checks)
          - [Competency Checks](#competency-checks)
          - [Untrained and Zero-Level Skills](#untrained-and-zero-level-skills)
          - [Multiple Actions](#multiple-actions)
          - [Local Law Level](#local-law-level)
          - [Attack Rolls](#attack-rolls)
          - [Opposed Checks](#opposed-checks)
      - [Other Rules about Checks](#other-rules-about-checks)
        - [Trying Again](#trying-again)
        - [Circumstance Modifiers](#circumstance-modifiers)
        - [Time and Checks](#time-and-checks)
          - [Table: Time Frames](#table-time-frames)
        - [Aiding Another](#aiding-another)
        - [Task Chaining](#task-chaining)
        - [Group Checks](#group-checks)
        - [Advantage and Disadvantage](#advantage-and-disadvantage)
        - [Exploding Dice](#exploding-dice)
        - [The Dice Chain](#the-dice-chain)
        - [Technology Level](#technology-level)
          - [Table: Technology Level Overview](#table-technology-level-overview)
          - [Availability of Technology at higher or lower levels](#availability-of-technology-at-higher-or-lower-levels)
  - [Annual Events](#annual-events)
    - [A Grim Year](#a-grim-year)
        - [A Personal Tragedy](#a-personal-tragedy)
        - [A Tragedy hits Close to Home](#a-tragedy-hits-close-to-home)
        - [A Cultural Tragedy Occurs](#a-cultural-tragedy-occurs)
        - [A Rare Natural Disaster Occurs](#a-rare-natural-disaster-occurs)
        - [Under Attack!](#under-attack)
    - [The Burdens of the World](#the-burdens-of-the-world)
        - [Rumors of War](#rumors-of-war)
        - [The Current Leader Goes to War](#the-current-leader-goes-to-war)
        - [A Major Migration Occurs](#a-major-migration-occurs)
    - [Blessings/Well Guided and Well-Guarded](#blessingswell-guided-and-well-guarded)
        - [An ambassador arrives.](#an-ambassador-arrives)
        - [A New Political / Social Movement Occurs](#a-new-political--social-movement-occurs)
        - [A New Religious Movement Starts](#a-new-religious-movement-starts)
    - [A Worthy Year](#a-worthy-year)
        - [Good Fortune](#good-fortune)
        - [A Rare Natural Phenomenon Occurs](#a-rare-natural-phenomenon-occurs)
        - [A Leader has a child](#a-leader-has-a-child)
  - [Activities](#activities)
    - [Interrupted Activities](#interrupted-activities)
    - [Seasonal Activities](#seasonal-activities)
      - [Base Activities](#base-activities)
      - [Depart Activities](#depart-activities)
      - [Dwell Activities](#dwell-activities)
      - [Sojourn Activities](#sojourn-activities)
      - [Social Activities](#social-activities)
        - [Courting and the Seasonal Activities](#courting-and-the-seasonal-activities)
      - [Recover Activities](#recover-activities)
    - [Monthly Activities – 4 Weeks](#monthly-activities--4-weeks)
    - [Weekly Activities – 7 Days](#weekly-activities--7-days)
    - [Daily Activities – 24 hours](#daily-activities--24-hours)
    - [Watch Activities – 4 hours](#watch-activities--4-hours)
    - [Puncti Activities – 15 minutes](#puncti-activities--15-minutes)
    - [Ounces (⏱) Activities – 7.5 Seconds](#ounces--activities--75-seconds)
  - [Bringing it all Together](#bringing-it-all-together)
    - [Physical Aspects](#physical-aspects)
      - [Muscle Characteristics](#muscle-characteristics)
        - [Ranged Combat Skill](#ranged-combat-skill)
        - [Athletics Skill](#athletics-skill)
        - [Melee Combat Skill](#melee-combat-skill)
      - [Agility Characteristics](#agility-characteristics)
        - [Stealth Skill](#stealth-skill)
        - [Acrobatics Skill](#acrobatics-skill)
        - [Sleight of Hand Skill](#sleight-of-hand-skill)
      - [Stamina Characteristics](#stamina-characteristics)
        - [Drive / Ride / Pilot Skill](#drive--ride--pilot-skill)
        - [Ruggedness Skill](#ruggedness-skill)
        - [Unarmed Combat Skill](#unarmed-combat-skill)
    - [Mental Aspects](#mental-aspects)
      - [Intellect Characteristic](#intellect-characteristic)
        - [Social Sciences Skill](#social-sciences-skill)
        - [Life Sciences Skill](#life-sciences-skill)
        - [Physical Sciences / Survival Skill](#physical-sciences--survival-skill)
      - [Reasoning Characteristics](#reasoning-characteristics)
        - [Engineering Skill](#engineering-skill)
        - [Insight Skill](#insight-skill)
        - [Investigation Skill](#investigation-skill)
      - [Acuity Characteristics](#acuity-characteristics)
        - [Traditions Skill](#traditions-skill)
        - [Perception Skill](#perception-skill)
        - [Formal Sciences Skill](#formal-sciences-skill)
    - [Social Aspects](#social-aspects)
      - [Manners Characteristics](#manners-characteristics)
        - [Style Skill](#style-skill)
        - [Performance Skill](#performance-skill)
        - [Etiquette Skill](#etiquette-skill)
      - [Personality Characteristics](#personality-characteristics)
        - [Deception Skill](#deception-skill)
        - [Persuasion Skill](#persuasion-skill)
        - [Intimidation Skill](#intimidation-skill)
      - [Identity Characteristics](#identity-characteristics)
        - [Bureaucracy Skill](#bureaucracy-skill)
        - [Animal Handling Skill](#animal-handling-skill)
        - [Leadership Skill](#leadership-skill)
    - [Spirituality Aspects](#spirituality-aspects)
      - [Skepticism Characteristics](#skepticism-characteristics)
        - [Arcana Skill](#arcana-skill)
        - [Gnosis Skill](#gnosis-skill)
        - [Chaos Skill](#chaos-skill)
      - [Faith Characteristics](#faith-characteristics)
        - [Theurgy Skill](#theurgy-skill)
        - [Adept Skill](#adept-skill)
        - [Order Skill](#order-skill)
      - [Mystery Characteristics](#mystery-characteristics)
        - [Metaphysics Skill](#metaphysics-skill)
        - [Animism Skill](#animism-skill)
        - [Shamanism Skill](#shamanism-skill)
- [LEGAL](#legal)
  - [Publishing Your Own Materials](#publishing-your-own-materials)
    - [The Cepheus Engine Compatibility-Statement License (CSL)](#the-cepheus-engine-compatibility-statement-license-csl)
  - [Open Game License Version 1.0A](#open-game-license-version-10a)


# INTRODUCTION

Welcome to the ***Märchen Engine System Reference Document***, which
outlines the core rules used by this Open Gaming System. This
Introduction provides you with an overview of what the Märchen Engine is
and how it works, while the later chapters show you how to create
characters and embark on your own exciting adventures.

## What Is Roleplaying?

If you are new to roleplaying, you might be asking yourself, “What is a
roleplaying game?”

A roleplaying game (sometimes abbreviated as RPG) is a game in which
players assume the roles of characters in a fictional setting. Players
take responsibility for acting out these roles within a narrative,
either through literal acting or through a process of structured
decision-making or character development. Actions taken within many
games succeed or fail according to a formal system of rules and
guidelines, such as the Märchen Engine rules.

A session of Märchen Engine play is conducted through discussion. One
player, the Referee, usually arbitrates any decision based on the rules
and presents the setting of the game, while each of the other players
plays the role of a single character. Together, the Referee and players
create a story, much like the way many of us used to create stories
playing games of make believe as young children, except with more dice
and more structure.

## What Is the Märchen Engine?

The Märchen Engine is simply a set of rules for conducting a game based
on classic fiction and adventure stories. Within its pages, you will
find rules on creating characters, resolving tasks, fighting other
creatures and engaging in huge battles, building worlds, enjoy the risks
of speculative trading, exploring new worlds, and a host of other
diverse activities. Although no rules set can be complete, the Märchen
Engine attempts to provide enough rules to allow you to create almost
any science fiction adventure.

The Märchen Engine is inspired by classic fiction games from the early
days of roleplaying and shares a lot of similarities with these gaming
systems. Material from these older rules sets and those created under
the Märchen Engine are mutually compatible with only a minimum of
adjustments required.

To play, you need a copy of the Märchen Engine rules; several dice,
available at game and hobby stores (you'll need two at a minimum, but
more is better); and a pencil and some paper.

## Iconography

⚅ - The Dice Symbol is used to indicate how the results of rolling the
dice are modified. For example, ⚅-3 means you will add a negative three
(3) to any dice roll associated with resolving that situation. Another
example, ⚅+2 means you will add a positive three (#) to any dice roll
associated with resolving that situation. While the symbol here is that
of a six-sided die, that does not necessarily mean that the resolution
calls for a six-sided die. The symbol is used to indicate dice rolling,
not which type.

σ – This symbol (a lower-case Sigma) indicates that dice have been
rolled and you are now determining the resulting category the result
belongs in belongs in. These results will be a number from -4 to +4.

± % – This symbol (plus or minus a percentage) indicates that the dice
have been rolled and you are now determining the resulting category the
result belongs in. These results will be a percentage from 400% to 25%.
This is used many times to modify the amount of time or the amount of
profit from a resulting transaction based on the skills involved in
making that resolution take place.

💪 – The Flexed Biceps emoji will be used for a characters Physical
Aspect.

⏱ – The stopwatch symbol represents an Ounce or a Round or a Combat
round. This is 7.5 seconds in length and is a historical term used to
describe a twelfth (<sup>1</sup>/<sub>12</sub>) of a moment. A moment
was 90 seconds or <sup>1</sup>/<sub>40</sub> of an hour. Onces could be
broken down into what was called Atoms of time or
<sup>1</sup>/<sub>47th</sub> of a Once. This atom of time is the amount
of time an eye takes to twinkle or as they say: In the twinkling of an
eye.

## The Core Task Resolution System

The Märchen Engine uses a core task resolution system to resolve
actions. Whenever your character attempts any action with a chance of
failure, do the following:

1.  Roll dice as determined by the characters and their circumstances.

2.  Add any relevant modifiers (for things like characteristics, skills,
    difficulty and circumstances).

3.  If the result equals or exceeds the threshold for success, the
    action succeeds. If the result is lower than the threshold for
    success, the action fails.

This simple system is used for nearly everything in the Märchen Engine,
with variations based on the modifiers added to a roll and the effects
of success and failure.

## Referee

Within the Märchen Engine rules, one of the players is asked to assume
the mantle of Referee. The Referee is the person who will act as an
organizer, officiant for questions regarding rules, arbitrator, and
moderator for a Märchen Engine gaming session, or an ongoing Märchen
Engine campaign. The role of the Referee is to weave the other
participants' player-character stories together, control the non-player
aspects of the game, create environments in which the players can
interact, and solve any player disputes.

## Characters

There are two types of heroes that participate in The Märchen engine
player character or playable character (PC) is a fictional character in
a Märchen Engine game whose actions are directly controlled by a player
of the game rather than the rules of the game. The characters that are
not controlled by a player are called non-player characters (NPCs). The
actions of non-player characters are typically handled by the Referee.

### Player Characters

Using the Märchen Engine rules as guidelines, a player will create a
Hero reflecting the sort of role they’d like to have in the game. The
Hero is usually of a certain race (depending on those available with the
Referee's universe) and possesses a unique combination of skills and
levels of expertise.

#### Associates, PCs, Heroes

Associates, PC’s and Heroes are all names for Character’s other humans
that are not Referee controled who are joining you on your adventure.

### The Company

The group of characters that is formed by a group of like-minded heroes.
They may share a common short-term goal appointed by elders or a council
of peoples, or they might all be young members of the same folk, ready
to leave home for the first time to see the world.

After the players have finished creating their characters, they should
discuss with the Referee the circumstances that brought the group
together and forged them into a company of adventurers. The more
detailed the description of the events that led to the characters
setting off adventuring the better, as this will give the Referee
valuable story hooks to turn into adventures that directly link to the
characters’ back-story.

The process of creating a company is the first seasonal activity played
by the group. During company creation, the players are assisted by the
Referee as they define the characteristics of their group of
adventurers.

#### First Meeting

The first thing to do is decide where the company was formed. To do so,
the players choose a suitable place. Locations that qualify as havens or
sanctuaries are an ideal choice, as these known to welcome outsiders as
they travel. As soon as everybody agrees on a location, its name is
recorded by every player on their character sheet.

When this is settled, the players briefly introduce their heroes, making
sure to mention how and why they arrived at the selected location in the
first place; the heroes’ cultures and callings can prove useful as
starting points. The referee could take this opportunity to provide
information about the setting to less-knowledgeable players. Some places
are particularly suited as locations for the first meeting of a company.

#### Relationships

All adventurers share a feeling of loyalty towards each other, but each
of them can develop a particular level of companionship with another
member of the group: it may be uncommon respect for someone wiser or
nobler, a special friendship shared with an old acquaintance, the
kinship felt for a fellow countryman, or deep affection for a dear
family member.

Whatever the nature of the relationship, each player must elect another
member of the company as his character’s focus, writing the name of this
companion in the appropriate space on the character sheet. It can be any
other Associate, Companion, or Patron who is in the Company, even one
that has already been chosen by somebody else as their focus. The bond
doesn’t have to be mutual: a hero who has been chosen by another hero as
his focus is free to choose any other character as his own.

#### Rating

The group of player-heroes is more than a band of roving mercenaries
brought together by mere necessity. At its foundation are communal goals
and mutual respect. This is recreated in the game by a shared pool of
Company points. During the game, players use these points to recover
Spiritual and Social Damage.

The number of points available to a company of heroes at the beginning
of the game is equal to the number of heroes in the group.

All players record the company’s rating total in the appropriate box on
their character sheet. This score is updated every time that a companion
uses a point to recover damage, and it is fully replenished at the
beginning of every game session.

#### Patron

A patron is a usually renowned or powerful personality, who may from
time to time offer a company a purpose to go adventuring, often
providing support and counsel. Companions may choose to meet a patron
during their seasonal activities if they are at the location where the
Patron is to be found and if the Patron is available for a meeting.

A company may have several patrons at the same time, if its members are
able to satisfy the requirements to ensure their allegiance (very often,
Patrons will ask something in return for their friendship).

### Other Characters

Over the course of their careers, Heroes will have made friends and
foes, and established ties with various non-player characters who may
play a part in future adventures. There are four categories of such
associates.

#### Companion

Someone who is currently not played by another human who has joined you
on an adventure. Companions are controlled by the Referee. A spouse or a
family member is a good example of a companion that most Heros will
have.

#### Allies

These are individuals that the Hero knows and who they have had friendly
dealings with in the past. They may have useful skills, positions, or
assets and they are willing to help the Traveller and will actively go
out of their way to provide aid.

#### Contacts

These are individuals like Allies; however, they may be willing to aid
the Hero.

Both Allies and Contacts can also be Patrons.

#### Rivals

These are people who hate or oppose the Hero and will attempt to
interfere or harass them.

#### Enemies

These are even worse than Rivals – a Rival will normally work within the
law, but an Enemy wants the Hero dead, imprisoned or otherwise doomed.

#### Hirelings

There are three sorts of hirelings. In a nutshell, mercenaries are
ordinary hired soldiers who serve for conventional military tasks – from
guarding a fortress to attacking enemy strongholds; they usually operate
as part of a larger military force. Retainers are NPCs brave (or
foolhardy) enough and are paid to accompany player characters into the
kinds of hair-raising adventures players love to put their characters
through. Specialists are, as the term implies, tradesmen or experts in
various useful non-combat (or combat-adjacent) fields.

All hirelings come with ordinary equipment appropriate for their
profession, subject to the Referee’s discretion. For example, a typical
light infantryman will come equipped with leather armor, a shield, and a
short sword or spear. An armorer or alchemist would have their tools.
The employer (the PCs) would have to supply heavy equipment, such as a
forge or laboratory.

To hire NPCs, the players must first negotiate with them. The Referee
will usually do this by role-playing the prospective hireling, by
rolling, or – most likely – using a combination of roleplay and dice
rolls.

##### Mercenaries

Mercenaries are soldiers (or thugs) who perform military (or thuggery)
operations. They may guard, patrol, assault enemy strongholds, engage
enemy forces, or even waylay unwary travelers. However, they are not
foolish enough to follow lunatics on harrowing adventures such as
robbing haunted tombs or sneaking into an enemy's castle to assassinate
a noble. That’s way above their pay scale. They’re soldiers.

##### Retainers

Retainers are NPCs willing to serve adventurers as bodyguards, henchmen,
or sidekicks. Unlike mercenaries, they are loyal enough to follow their
master and will put themselves in grave danger. Retainers may operate
individually rather than as part of a larger unit. However, they require
a higher monthly fee, and they must receive a share of their master’s
treasure gained through adventure. A character may have more than one
retainer, but they must be able to pay for that retainer. The higher
their 🤝 and Leadership the more they will be able to retain. Regardless
of 🤝, a character will always be able to have at least one retainer.

The Referee must generate prospective retainers as regular characters
using the character generation rules. Note that this is always subject
to Referee discretion. Retainers come with appropriate basic gear, as
received from character generation, or purchased from the money they
eared in their career when they mustered out.

##### Specialists

Tradesmen and professionals, such as sailors to crew a ship, or an
alchemist to produce potions. Specialists are usually non-combatants,
though this is subject to Referee discretion and the specific task the
specialist was hired to do. For example, siege engineers are generally
considered to be combatants, though they would expect to never be in
immediate danger. The payment due a Specialist will be determined by
their skills and competencies.

## Creating Characters

The attributes of a character are given as numerical values which can
change as the game progresses, and characters grow and develop over the
course of their adventures.

### Aspects

All beings have four aspects of their existence. These define the
highest categorical breakdown of a being. They are Physical, Mental,
Social, and Spiritual. They each have a numeric score The higher the
score, the more potential that being has in that aspect of their
existence. These numbers also represent how much damage the character
can take. These aspects can be broken down into your traditional
Characteristics.

#### Example

Jeremiah has always been a physical presence around the community
(Aspect is Physical = 3). The stats for Jeremiah so far are: Physical
(3).

### Characteristics

All characters have certain basic characteristics that define what they
can do. Each of these characteristics fall into a given aspect. Higher
characteristic scores grant bonuses on task resolution checks, while
lower characteristic scores grant penalties. As part of creating your
character, you decide how strong, smart, and tough your character is by
choosing the appropriate characteristic scores. See **Chapter 1:
Character Creation** for more information.

#### Example

Jeremiah has always been a physical presence around the community
(Aspect is Physical = 3 and Characteristic is Stamina = 3). The stats
for Jeremiah are: Physical (3) – Stamina (3).

### Knowledge Areas - 

Knowledge describes facts and information typically acquired through
experience or informal study. It represents exposure and knowledge in a
particular sort of task or knowledge.

##### Table: Skill and Specialization Level 

| Skill Level | Traditional Title                   | Academic Titles   | Years of Study | Special Rules                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
|-------------|-------------------------------------|-------------------|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Level 0     | Commoner                            | Self-Taught       | 2 years        | Commoners have skills that establish the background of the character and its setting. The GM may use them to ascertain what makes sense for the character to be doing. This skill gets no bonus other than the bonuses associated with their Aspects and Characteristics.                                            |
| Level 1     | Apprentice                          | Associate Degree  | 2 years        | Once someone has apprenticed, they have skills at this level. This level allows                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Level 2     | Journeyman                          | Bachelor’s Degree | 2 years        | Someone at this level man try to help another person using the Aiding Another.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Level 3     | Master                              | Master’s Degree   | 2 years        | Someone who is at this level may start and direct a Task Chain                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Level 4     | Grand Master                        | Doctorate Degree  | 2 years        | A Grand Master may establish a Task Pool                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Level 5     | Demigods, Principalities and Powers |                   | NA             | Characters who have a skill at this level may burn Aspects and Characteristics and convert them into successes. This level is only mentioned here in the event this is common in the game.                                                                                                                           |
| Apotheosis  | Deities                             |                   | NA             | Characters at this level of existence have the ability burn Aspects and Characteristics and either elevate or demote others skill levels for each Aspect or Characteristics burnt so that Grand Master would either be elevated to the level of a demigod or demoted to the level of a master for each aspect burnt. |

~~A skill is either skilled or unskilled in that knowledge area.~~

~~Each competencies level represents roughly two years’ worth of
education and training in that skill. For each level of competency the
player must increase their knowledge by +1 as welldww. Once a
competencies is taken to level 4, the skill its associated with receives
a +1. Specialization are learned at a technology level. Specialization
can not be learned past level 4. When recording Specialization and their
associated levels, the Specialization name is written first, followed by
a hyphen, and then the number of levels that the character possesses in
that skill. For example, Gambling-2 means that the character has two
levels of Gambling Specialization.~~

> ~~A skill can is a binSkills cannot be above level 4. Once you have a
> skill at level 1, you have all associated specializations at level 0.
> Once you have a specialization associated with a given skill, the only
> opportunity for more development in this area of study is to increase
> your overall skill. In other words, if you have a skill at level 2,
> this means you have at least one specialization at level 4.~~

#### Skilled

A knowledge area can be something you have a skill in. A skill is
applying knowledge and developing a proficiency in a controlled
environment with a focus on developing a competency. Generally, this
represents some form of formal training. A skill, if a character has it,
starts at Level 0. This represents the general knowledge of the average
self-taught individual. If there is no exposure to that skill, the skill
is not on the character sheet and it can not be used, nor any of the
competencies. There are four different levels above that which map to
formal training. There are two other levels that are presented in the
table below which represent skill levels for NPCs and patrons.

##### Example

Jeremiah has always been a physical presence around the community
(Aspect is Physical = 3 and Characteristic is Stamina = 3). There is a
story of him growing up when as a child he entered a wrestling contest
and defeated one of the drunk adults (Knowledge Area = Unarmed and
Skilled = Self Taught = 0). The stats for Jeremiah are: Physical(3) -
Stamina(3) – Unarmed (0).

#### Competency

Every Knowledge area has multiple competencies associated with it. A
competency represents the character applying the necessary knowledge and
skill in a real-world environment with full professional responsibility
and accountability for one's own actions.

##### Example

Jeremiah has always been a physical presence around the community
(Aspect is Physical = 3 and Characteristic is Stamina = 3). There is a
story of him growing up when as a child he entered a wrestling contest
and defeated one of the drunk adults (Knowledge Area = Unarmed and
Skilled = Self Taught = 0). The stats for Jeremiah are: Physical (3) -
Stamina (3) – Unarmed (0). After winning the contest against Jacob, he
decides to join the wrestling team in High School (Physical (3) -
Stamina (3) – Unarmed (1)) where they teach Greco-Roman Wrestling
(Physical(3) - Stamina(3) – Unarmed (1) – Greco Roman Wrestling (1)).
After School his mom drops him off at the local dojo (Jeremiah cannot
double his effort on formal skilled training to gain an additional point
here.) where he learns Tae Kwon Do (Physical (3) - Stamina (3) – Unarmed
(1) – Taw Kwon Do (1)).

Skill levels act as a bonus on task resolutions rolls when a character
attempts an action related to a skill. As your character follows their
career, they gain skills. See **Chapter 2: Skills** for more information
on specific skills.

### Careers

As a part of their development, characters follow certain life paths
called careers. The setting you play in will provide a variety of career
options for characters to pursue, which opens up opportunities for
characters to gain skill levels, characteristic boosts and significant
mustering out benefits before they enter into play. See **Chapter 1:
Character Creation** for more information.

## Game Play

Playing a session using the Märchen Engine rules resembles verbally
acting out chapters from a story. Game sessions can last from short
sessions of an hour or two, up to marathon games covering most of a
weekend. The average game session tends to run three to five hours,
however. Over the course of a session, the player-characters pursue
their adventures. Some resolve quickly, within a single session, while
others may take place in multiple acts spread out over several sessions.

Each adventure is like its very own story, consisting of a series of
scenes that are explored during play. In general, most scenes are simply
the players interacting with the non-player characters and the universe
created by the Referee. The players describe their actions, and the
Referee describes the results of those actions, in a back-and-forth
exchange. Certain kinds of situations, such as personal or space combat,
have more structure and more rules to help the players resolve their
actions in ways reflecting the abilities of their characters.

### Game Play Processes

The basic idea behind The Märchen Engine is to separate the Game Play
Processes from the Game Mechanics. A Game Play Process is the steps the
players go through to perform, and a given narrative sequence with their
characters. While a Game Play Mechanic is how to resolve any action the
players wish to perform.

#### The Basic Game Play Process

1\. The Referee establishes a scene based on the characters skills,
abilities, and circumstances.

2\. The players state what their characters are trying to achieve and
how they are doing it.

3\. The Referee determines if the approach automatically succeeds or
automatically fails to achieve the goal.

4\. If success or failure is not automatic, then the people at the table
determine success by rolling dice.

5\. The Referee narrates the results and the consequences based on the
characters skills, abilities, and circumstances (which generally
includes marking off resources spent in the attempt).

6\. Goto Step 2

#### Other Game Play Processes

Another Game Process players will commonly encounter is the process for
creating a character.

### Game Play Mechanics

#### Die Rolls 

The Märchen Engine allows play players to pick between several different
mechanics to resolve actions. They are as follows: D10, D20, D100, 2d6,
3d6, and 4d7.

Using the Märchen Engine, when you make a die roll to resolve an action
by rolling the chosen set of dice and checking to see what the σ is for
those results. Now add all the Dice Modifiers (⚅) for the given
situation to the σ. This will give you a final number. This is called a
check. You always want to roll high on a check. The symbol of ⥣
represents the number required for a success when you do not need to
determine a σ.

| σ   | 1d20  | 2d6     | 3d6     | 4d7     | 8D4(dreidels) | D100    |
|-----|-------|---------|---------|---------|---------------|---------|
| -4  | 1-3   | NA      | 3       | 4       | 8 - 9         | 1       |
| -3  | 4-5   | 2       | 4 – 5   | 5 – 7   | 10 – 11       | 2 – 3   |
| -2  | 6-7   | 3 – 4   | 6 – 7   | 8 – 11  | 12 – 15       | 4 – 18  |
| -1  | 8-10  | 5 – 7   | 8 – 11  | 12 – 16 | 16 – 20       | 19 – 51 |
| ⥣   | 11    | 8       | 12      | 17      | 21            | 52      |
| 1   | 11-13 | 8 – 9   | 12 – 13 | 17 – 20 | 21 – 24       | 52 – 81 |
| 2   | 14-15 | 10 – 11 | 14 – 15 | 21 – 24 | 25 – 28       | 82 – 96 |
| 3   | 16-17 | 12      | 16 – 17 | 25 – 27 | 29 – 30       | 97 – 99 |
| 4   | 18-20 | NA      | 18      | 28      | 31 – 32       | 100     |

##### Difficulty and Effect

A check's Difficulty is a number set by the Referee that modifies your
check result. When no Difficulty is given, the assumed Difficulty is
⚅+0. So, for a task with a Difficulty of ⚅+2, you must add +2 to the
check result. You succeed on a total of the Success Number (⥣) or
better. The list of Difficulty ratings can be found in the Task
Difficulty table.

###### Table: Task Difficulties

| Difficulty        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | D10 | D20 | D100 | 2d6 | 3d6 | 4d7 |
|-------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----|-----|------|-----|-----|-----|
| Trivial           | Something that is automatically done                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |     |     |      |     | 9   | 15  |
| Simple            | Requires a minimum level of competence or a bit of luck to accomplish.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |     | 5   |      | 6   | 7   | 10  |
| Easy              | Requires a minimum level of competence or a bit of luck to accomplish.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |     | 10  |      | 4   | 5   | 5   |
| Routine           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character with natural aptitude.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |     | 15  |      | 2   | 3   | 4   |
| Average           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character if they have received exposure to the skill and are not encumbered in any way. This is the work of an apprentice or someone with exceptional latent talent.                                                                                   |     |     |      | 0   | 0   | 0   |
| Difficult         | Generally anything that takes actual training. This is the skilled work of a professional doing what they are paid to do. Include anything beyond the capabilities of the average person without aid or exceptional talent. Even with a bit of training and skill you still need some luck to pull it off (or maybe some specialized training). |     | 20  |      | -2  | -3  | -4  |
| Very Difficult    | Even with a bit of training and skill you still need some luck to pull it off (or maybe some specialized training). Include anything beyond the capabilities of the average person without specialized aid or exceptional talent.                                                                                                               |     | 25  |      | -4  | -5  | -5  |
| Formidable        | Achievable only by especially talented individuals. Nobody else should even bother trying. This is on the level of superstars.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |     | 30  |      | -6  | -7  | -10 |
| Heroic            | Achievable only by the most trained, experienced, and talented superstars, and they probably still need help to pull it off. This is a once or twice in a lifetime feet. You are the best at this in the world.                                                                                                                                 |     |     |      |     | -9  | -15 |
| Nearly Impossible | An epic feat on which legendary tales are based on. The named masters of a skill come from acts such as these. You will be in the history books.                                                                                                                                                                                                |     |     |      |     |     | -25 |
| Godly             | Can't be done without assistance unless you're basically a demigod.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |     |     |      |     |     | -30 |

In some cases, the consequences of a check vary based on how much the
check result is above or below the target of 8. The difference between
the check result and the target of 8 is called the Effect.

###### Table: Degrees of Effect

| Degree of Effect | Final σ | ± %  | \-  | \+  | Final Result |
|------------------|---------|------|-----|-----|--------------|
| Catastrophic     | -4      | 400% | 8   | 1   | 4            |
| Costly           | -3      | 200% | 7   | 2   | 5 – 7        |
| Fail             | -2      | 150% | 6   | 3   | 8 – 11       |
| Minor Fail       | -1      | 100% | 5   | 4   | 12 – 14      |
| Fail in Style    | -1      | 100% | 5   | 4   | 15           |
| Tie              | 0       | 100% | 4   | 5   | 16           |
| Succeed          | 1       | 100% | 4   | 5   | 17 – 20      |
| Succeed In Style | 2       | 75%  | 3   | 6   | 21 – 24      |
| Critical         | 3       | 50%  | 2   | 7   | 25 – 27      |
| Serendipitous    | 4       | 25%  | 1   | 8   | 28           |

###### Degrees of Effect Defined

There are nine separate ways a predicament can be resolved:

####### Fail Catastrophically 

This is a critical failure. The cost for this sort of failure means the
outcome the actor was intending failed. Additionally, things have turned
worse for that actor as well in unrelated areas or with a sense of
finality.

> For example, if a thief was attempting to pick the lock of a door,
> then it should be determined that they did not pick the lock. The trap
> in the door was triggered. Everyone in The Company must now determine
> if they are now poisoned, and no further attempts may be made
> (finality). In the event that overcoming this complication was
> required for The Company to accomplish their overall objectives, the
> GM must instead make the events turn to the worse in other areas. In
> the above example this would mean that in their attempts to pick the
> lock, the thief slipped, and knocked the torch out of the hands of the
> person carrying it, and the tapestry the door is behind is now on
> fire. Or the torch is now out and no one can see. The idea here is to
> heighten tension and make the attempt require larger efforts of
> heroics.

####### Costly

This is one step away from a critical failure. The cost should be
related to the outcome the player or monster was attempting.

> For example, if the thief was attempting to pick the lock of a door,
> then it should be determined that they did not pick the lock, but they
> did trigger the trap in the door, and everyone in The Company must now
> determine if they are poisoned.

####### Fail

This is a normal failure.

> In the example of our thief would not have been able to pick the lock,
> but the lock would not be jammed, and he would still have his pick.

####### Fail in Style

This is one step above a failure. It is still a failure, but something
else has happened that moves the story forward in a more difficult path,
but without accomplishing the goals.

> In the example of the thief, he wouldn't have picked the lock, but he
> did spring the trap and the door was opened, but everyone in The
> Company must determine if they are poisoned. This is the classic fail
> forward approach.

####### Tie

A tie succeeds unless this was a contest between two parties, in which
case the outcome is that neither party gets what they want, and it
should be treated as a fail in style for both sides. This is useful for
social interactions or for contests of strength or agility.

> In the example of our thief the parties in question are the designer
> of the lock or door and The Company trying to get in. The thief would
> not get what they want, the lock to be picked, and the designer of the
> lock would not get what they want, to keep the lock secure. The
> resolution on this would be that the thief can’t open the lock with
> this action, but he has gained knowledge of the lock, which will make
> it easier for him next time. This wouldn’t be a problem for the thief
> unless he was doing this under a stress.

####### Succeed

The individual who attempted to do something accomplishes what they set
out to do.

> In the example of the thief, the door is unlocked, and is no longer
> being held shut by the locking mechanism.

####### Succeed in Style

The individual who attempted to do something accomplishes what they set
out to do, and they got some hidden bonus or style out of it.

> In the example of the thief, the door is unlocked, and is no longer
> being held shut by the locking mechanism, and the thief now
> understands how that lock is constructed and the next one that is just
> like it will be easier to open.

####### Critical Success

The individual who attempted to do something accomplishes what they set
out todo, and they got a substantial hidden bonus or style out of it.

> In the example of the thief, the door is unlocked, and is no longer
> being held shut by the locking mechanism, and the thief now
> understands how locks made by that locksmith are constructed so any
> lock within this facility will be easier to open.

####### Serendipitous Success

The individual who attempted to do something accomplishes what they set
out to do, and they got a substantial hidden bonus or style out of it
that is completely unrelated to the task being attempted.

> In the example of the thief, the door is unlocked, and is no longer
> being held shut by the locking mechanism, and the thief now
> understands how locks made by that locksmith are constructed so any
> lock within this facility will be easier to open. In addition, the
> thief see's the trap on the door as well and has a normal success to
> disarm it. The best way to see a serendipitous success is to see this
> as two completely independent successes on one die roll. In the event
> that a complication requires more than one success a serendipitous
> success will, in addition to everything above, add an additional
> success to the success pool.

#### Types of Checks 

There are Two main types of checks: skill checks and characteristic
checks.

##### Passive Checks

A passive check is a special kind of ability check that doesn’t involve
any die rolls by the players. Such a check can represent the average
result for a task done repeatedly, such as searching for secret doors
repeatedly or can be used when the GM wants to secretly determine
whether the characters succeed at something without rolling dice, such
as noticing a hidden monster.

Here’s how to determine a character’s total for a passive check:

10 + all modifiers that normally apply to the check

##### Active Checks

###### Aspect Checks

An aspect check is the simplest check you can make.

###### Characteristics Checks

A characteristic check is like a skill check, but measures raw ability,
like strength, endurance, or intelligence. These checks are used when
the task is one not covered by an obvious skill, or where the
character’s innate abilities are the most important influence on the
result. To make a Characteristic check, you must roll 2D6 and add the
appropriate characteristic score modifier. Characteristic checks tend to
be all or nothing (you can either accomplish the task or you can't),
although there are sometimes gradations of success or failure.

###### Skill Checks

A skill check determines what you can accomplish with a particular skill
(sometimes whether you're trained in that skill or not). You will roll
the dice. Then you will take that number and add any sort of modifiers
based on your characters aspects, characteristics, skills and
specializations. Finally, you will add any sort of difficulty modifier
based on the circumstances of what your character is trying to do. Then
you will compare the resulting number against the Degree of Effect to
see the outcome in that circumstance. Most of the times, skill checks
have gradations of success and failure based on the Effect of your check
result. When making a skill check, if a character does not have any
levels in the required skill, then they suffer a the untrained penalty.

###### Competency Checks

TODO

###### Untrained and Zero-Level Skills

Characters can perform some tasks without any training in a skill, using
only raw talent (defined by their characteristic scores), but skilled
characters tend to be better at such things. Unless the Referee says you
cannot, you can always attempt tasks involving that skill even if you
have no training in it.

If a character has no level in a skill, then he is untrained and will
suffer a ⚅-3 when trying to use that skill.

If a character has zero level in a skill (Skill 0), then he is competent
in using that skill, but has little experience. He does not get any
bonus from his skill ranks when using that skill but at least he avoids
the penalty for being untrained.

###### Multiple Actions

A character can try to do two or more things at once, like firing a
spacecraft’s weapons while also flying, or disarming a bomb while hiding
from guards. For every extra thing that the character is doing, he
suffers a ⚅-2 to all skill checks.

###### Local Law Level

Some tasks are impacted by the local Law Level, as presented in the
Universal Settlement Profile. For tasks that are impacted by the local
laws, rules, and regulations, check the table below and use these as a
part of the DM’s that are added to the die roll prior to determining the
effect.

####### Table: Base Difficulty by Law Level

| Law Level | Difficulty     |
|-----------|----------------|
| 0         | Routine        |
| 1-3       | Average        |
| 4-6       | Difficult      |
| 7-9       | Very Difficult |
| 10+       | Formidable     |

###### Attack Rolls

There is no separate Attack roll in the Märchen Engine. You will use a
standard skill check and the circumstances and skills of the
participants will determine various numbers you add to the result you
get on your dice.

###### Opposed Checks

If two characters are opposing each other directly in a task, then the
character who obtains the highest Effect wins. For ties on opposed
checks, the character with the highest relevant characteristic score
wins. If the characters tie on characteristic scores, they reroll.

#### Other Rules about Checks

##### Trying Again

In general, you can try a check again if you fail, and keep trying
indefinitely. Some tasks, however, have consequences for failure. For
example, failing an Athletics check while climbing a cliff might mean
you fall, which might make it difficult to try again. Some tasks can't
be attempted again once a check has failed. For most tasks, once you've
succeeded, additional successes are meaningless. (Once you've discovered
a computer account's password using the Computer skill, for instance,
there's no further benefit from additional Computer checks to determine
the account's password.)

##### Circumstance Modifiers

Some circumstances make a check easier or harder, resulting in a bonus
or penalty that is added to the check result. The Referee can alter the
odds of success in two ways:

- If a character has help, such as good tools, competent aids or other
  beneficial circumstances, he receives a ⚅+1 bonus to his skill check.

- If a character is hampered, such as having defective tools,
  incompetent assistance or other negative circumstances, he receives a
  ⚅-1 penalty to his skill check.

##### Time and Checks

Outside of stressful situations such as combat, performing a particular
task often takes a random amount of time, depending on circumstances.
For most tasks, roll the aspect, attribute, or skill required to do the
task (with all DMs) and reference the σ value for that roll. Then
compare the chart below. For example, breaking a flimsy wooden door
would only require a single Onces (7.5 Seconds) while performing
delicate surgery might take two watches (2 x 4 hours). If an action
takes multiple timeframes, then roll for each. These rolls can be the
same rolls that the player makes to perform the task if the tasks
outcome is uncertain.

You can choose, before you roll, to move up or down one or two rows on
the Time Frames table. Moving up (reducing the time increment) gives you
a ⚅-1 for every row you move; moving down and increasing the time taken
gives you a ⚅+1 for every row you move. Your Referee will help
adjudicate any issues that might arise from a change in the time frame.

###### Table: Time Frames

| -4                  | -3                   | -2                             | -1               | 0                | 1                | 2             | 3                   | 4                    | Base Increment                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
|---------------------|----------------------|--------------------------------|------------------|------------------|------------------|---------------|---------------------|----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 30 sec              | 15 sec               | 11.25 sec                      | 7.5 sec          | 7.5 sec          | 7.5 sec          | 5.625 sec     | 3.75 sec            | 1.875 sec            | One Ounces is 7.5 Seconds. There are 8 Ounces in a Minute. There are 120 ounces in a Puncti. This is the time an action takes place in simulated play and in when players are reacting in Storytelling mode (7.5 Sec) |
| 4 min               | 2 min                | 1 min 30 sec                   | 1 min            | 1 min            | 1 min            | 45 sec        | 30 sec              | 15 sec               | One Minute. This is generally the time an action takes place in Storytelling mode (1 min)                                                                                                                             |
| 60 min              | 30 min               | 22 min 30 sec                  | 15 min           | 15 min           | 15 min           | 11 min 15 sec | 7 min 30 sec        | 3 min 45 sec         | One Puncti is 15 minutes or half a Bell. This is generally the time an action takes place in Storytelling mode (15 min)                                                                                               |
| 120 min             | 60 min               | 45 min                         | 30 min           | 30 min           | 30 min           | 22 min 30 sec | 15 min              | 7 min 30 sec         | One Bell is half an hour or half an hourglass and there are 8 bells per watch (30 min)                                                                                                                                |
| 240 min             | 120 min              | 90 min                         | 60 min           | 60 min           | 60 min           | 45 min        | 30 min              | 15 min               | One Hourglass is one quarter of a Watch (1 hour)                                                                                                                                                                      |
| 16 hours            | 8 hours              | 6 hours                        | 4 hours          | 4 hours          | 4 hours          | 3 hours       | 2 hours             | 1 hour               | One Watch is one sixth of a day (4 hours).                                                                                                                                                                            |
| 96 hours (4 days)   | 48 Hours (2 days)    | 36 hours (3 days)              | 24 hours (1 day) | 24 hours (1 day) | 24 hours (1 day) | 18 hours      | 12 hours            | 6 hours              | One Day is 24 hours. (24 hours)                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| 28 days             | 14 days              | 10.5 days                      | 7 days           | 7 days           | 7 days           | 5.25 days     | 3.5 days (84 Hours) | 1.75 days (42 Hours) | One Week (7 days)                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| 120 days (4 months) | 60 days (2 Months)   | 45 days (1.5 Months)           | 1 Month          | 1 Month          | 1 Month          | 3 weeks       | 2 weeks             | 1 week               | One Month (30-31 days)                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| 1 year              | 2 seasons (6 Months) | 1.5 seasons (4 Months 2 weeks) | 1 season         | 1 season         | 1 season         | 9 weeks       | 6 weeks             | 3 weeks              | One Season (3 months)                                                                                                                                                                                                 |

##### Aiding Another

Sometimes characters work together and help each other out. In this
case, one character (usually the one with the highest total of modifiers
on the check) is considered the leader of the effort and makes the check
normally, while each helper makes the same check. The Effect of a
helper's check result can provide either a bonus (⚅+1 with a successful
result, ⚅+2 with an Exceptional Success) or a penalty (⚅-1 with a failed
result, ⚅-2 with an Exceptional Failure) to the leader's check result.
In many cases, outside help isn't beneficial, or only a limited number
of helpers can aid someone at once. The Referee limits aid as
appropriate for the task and conditions.

##### Task Chaining 

Often, players will find themselves performing a series of interlinked
tasks or working as a group.

Finding a buyer for a cargo of illegal goods, for example, calls for a
Streetwise check to find a fence, then a Broker check to negotiate a
price. The result of the Streetwise check could conceivably influence
the quality and competence of the fence, which will affect the Broker
check.

Alternatively, when coming up with a plan to attack a fortress, the
players would begin with a Recon check to scope the place out, then a
Tactics check to find weak spots in its defenses, then Stealth and
Electronics rolls to get past the security system. The quality of
information gleaned from the Recon check will certainly have an impact
on the tactics the players choose to adopt, and this in turn will make
their Stealth checks easier or harder, and so on.

When tasks are linked together like this they are called task chains and
the result of one check can give a DM to the next – for better or worse.
This DM is equal to the σ value on their results on the degree of effect
table.

##### Group Checks

When a number of individuals are trying to accomplish something as a
group, the GM might ask for a group ability check. In such a situation,
the characters who are skilled at a particular task help cover those who
aren’t.

To make a group ability check, everyone in the group makes the ability
check. If at least half the group succeeds, the whole group succeeds.
Otherwise, the group fails.

Group checks don’t come up very often, and they’re most useful when all
the characters succeed or fail as a group. For example, when adventurers
are navigating a swamp, the GM might call for a group Survival check to
see if the characters can avoid the quicksand, sinkholes, and other
natural hazards of the environment. If at least half the group succeeds,
the successful characters are able to guide their companions out of
danger. Otherwise, the group stumbles into one of these hazards.

##### Advantage and Disadvantage

Sometimes a special ability or spell tells you that you have advantage
or disadvantage on an ability check, a saving throw, or an attack roll.
When that happens, you roll a second set of dice when you make the roll.
Use the higher of the two rolls if you have advantage and use the lower
roll if you have disadvantage. For example, if you have disadvantage and
roll a 17 and a 5, you use the 5. If you instead have advantage and roll
those numbers, you use the 17.

If multiple situations affect a roll and each one grants advantage or
imposes disadvantage on it, you don’t roll more than one additional set
of dice. If three favorable situations grant advantage, for example, you
still roll only one additional set of dice.

If circumstances cause a roll to have both advantage and disadvantage,
you are considered to have neither of them, and you roll one set of
dice. This is true even if multiple circumstances impose disadvantage
and only one grants advantage or vice versa. In such a situation, you
have neither advantage nor disadvantage.

When you have advantage or disadvantage and something in the game lets
you reroll some of all of your dice, you can reroll a single instance of
those dice; either the advantaged roll or the disadvantaged roll) one of
the dice.

You usually gain advantage or disadvantage through the use of special
abilities, actions, or other actions. The GM can also decide that
circumstances influence a roll in one direction or the other and grant
advantage or impose disadvantage as a result.

##### Exploding Dice

Exploding dice are fun! When rolling dice, if the maximum value on any
dice is rolled, the dice “explodes.” Roll any such dice one additional
time and add their value to the previous total. Any rerolled dice may
also explode. For example, you roll 2d6 for damage and roll a 3 and a 6.
You reroll one dice, getting another 6. You then reroll that dice,
getting a 4. This brings your total damage to 3 + 6 + 6 + 4, or 19.

The humble d4 is very prone to explosions. Just try it! It's not
unthinkable to get an explosion sequence like 4 + 4 + 3 after about a
dozen tries.

Theoretically, a die can keep exploding forever. In practice, that
doesn't really happen. Even if you keep rolling 4s on that d4, after
several explosions you'll likely won't bother anymore, the result so far
is good enough.

##### The Dice Chain

One of the most fun aspects of using funky dice in a rules set is
getting to roll those dice! Many traditional RPGs utilize modifiers to
dice rolls to express improved success or failure in an action. For
example, an attack with an off-hand weapon may incur a -4 penalty, or an
attack against a motionless opponent may grant a +4 bonus.

The Märchen Engine utilizes this traditional modifier system but can
also employ a system of swapping out die types where the modifier is
sufficiently large. If the team has decided to use the 3d6 as the core
die mechanic, there are times when the player may be instructed to roll
a 3d6 or 4d7 instead, depending on whether the action has an improved or
reduced chance of success.

Sometimes there will be multiple “dice swaps” impacting a die. For
example, a spellcaster may be particularly good at one kind of magic,
granting him an improved die, and he may also be operating under the
influence of a magic item that grants him a further improved die. The
system for moving “up and down” different die types is known as the dice
chain.

The dice chain is represented as follows:

d3 – d4 – d5 – d6 – d7 – d8 – d10 – d12 – d14 – d16 – d20 – d24 – d30

##### Technology Level

Technology Level, also known as Tech Level or TL, is a measure how
advanced a given technology or Scientific idea is and is frequently a
measure of the complexity and effectiveness of a piece of equipment.
Most skills that deal with technology or scientific ideas also have a
technology level they are learned at. When a player wishes to use a
piece of technology that is built to be used by another technology level
the player needs to add a negative DM for each difference.

> For Example, a Player who was raised in the Bronze age comes across a
> iPhone and they attempt to use it. The Technology Level of the iPhone
> is TL8 and the TL of the Bronze Age High Priest is TL1. This means the
> player adds a ⚅-7 to their die roll do this activity. Another player
> whose character is from our day and age is shown a bronze age carved
> tablet where the laws of their society are written. The modern-day man
> learned at TL8 and is attempting to use a TL1 object. This is still a
> ⚅-7 to try to understand the laws written on the stone tablets on
> display in front of the tent of worship in the center of the nomadic
> encampment.

###### Table: Technology Level Overview

| TL     | Descriptor      | Human Analogue                      | Notable Characteristics                                                                                                                                                         |
|--------|-----------------|-------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 0      | Primitive       | Neolithic – 6000BCE                 | No technology.                                                                                                                                                                  |
| 1      | Primitive       | Bronze- 3500 BCE                    | Roughly on a par with Bronze or Iron age technology.                                                                                                                            |
| 2      | Primitive       | Age of Sail / Renaissance – 1500 CE | Renaissance technology.                                                                                                                                                         |
| 3      | Primitive       | Industrial Revolution – 1730        | Mass production allows for product standardization, bringing the germ of industrial revolution and steam power.                                                                 |
| 4      | Industrial      | Mechanized – 1900                   | Transition to industrial revolution is complete, bringing plastics, radio and other such inventions.                                                                            |
| 5      | Industrial      | Broadcast – 1930                    | Widespread electrification, tele-communications and internal combustion.                                                                                                        |
| 6      | Industrial      | Atomic – 1940                       | Development of fission power and more advanced computing.                                                                                                                       |
| 7      | Pre-Stellar     | Space Age -1990                     | Can reach orbit reliably and has telecommunications satellites.                                                                                                                 |
| 8      | Pre-Stellar     | Information Age – 1990              | Possible to reach other worlds in the same system, although terraforming or full colonization is not within the culture’s capacity.                                             |
| 9      | Pre-Stellar     |                                     | Development of gravity manipulation, which makes space travel vastly safer and faster; first steps into Jump Drive technology.                                                  |
| 10 (A) | Early Stellar   |                                     | With the advent of Jump, nearby systems are opened up.                                                                                                                          |
| 11 (B) | Early Stellar   |                                     | The first primitive (non-creative) artificial intelligences become possible in the form of “low autonomous” interfaces, as computers begin to model synaptic networks.          |
| 12 (C) | Average Stellar |                                     | Weather control revolutionizes terraforming and agriculture.                                                                                                                    |
| 13 (D) | Average Stellar |                                     | The battle dress appears on the battlefield in response to the new weapons. “High autonomous” interfaces allow computers to become self-actuating and self-teaching.            |
| 14 (E) | Average Stellar |                                     | Fusion weapons become man portable.                                                                                                                                             |
| 15 (F) | High Stellar    |                                     | Black globe generators suggest a new direction for defensive technologies, while the development of synthetic anagathics means that the human lifespan is now vastly increased. |

Higher Technology Levels exist and may appear in some Märchen Engine
universes.

###### Availability of Technology at higher or lower levels

| Tech Level     | Basic Idea                                                                                                            |
|----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Tech Level - 4 | The Idea exists in art, but the mechanics are not understood. Basic Principals are left to Technobabble or Magic      |
| Tech Level - 3 | The Idea exists in art with a basic understanding of how the object works. Details are left to Technobabble or Magic. |
| Tech Level - 2 | The life work of a group or individual. Prototypes only exist in secret.                                              |
| Tech Level - 1 | Prototypes exist in the public                                                                                        |
| Tech Level 0   | General availability of the item                                                                                      |
| Tech Level + 1 | Automated Production                                                                                                  |
| Tech Level + 2 | Optimized and Mass production                                                                                         |
| Tech Level + 3 | Consolidated into another Technology                                                                                  |

## Annual Events

Annual events are not planned by the players. These are used to react
against. The Referee may arbitrarily choose one of these events to
drive. If there will be a random event, please use the following
approach:

Calculate the average number of Spiritual and Social damage carried by
The Company at the end of the year. The number (-8 thru +8 will be the
DM to a role against the average of the parties Spiritual Aspect (-4
thru +4).

| Degree of Effect | Annual Event Type                        |
|------------------|------------------------------------------|
| Catastrophic     | A Grim Year                              |
| Costly           | A Grim Year                              |
| Fail             | The Burdens of the World                 |
| Minor Fail       | The Burdens of the World                 |
| Fail in Style    | The Burdens of the World                 |
| Tie              | Blessings / Well Guided and Well-Guarded |
| Succeed          | Blessings / Well Guided and Well-Guarded |
| Succeed In Style | Blessings / Well Guided and Well-Guarded |
| Critical         | A Worthy Year                            |
| Serendipitous    | A Worthy Year                            |

### A Grim Year

Dwelling at Home: When you are at home something bad has happened.

Sojourning Abroad:

Travelling:

##### A Personal Tragedy

Who: The Character

is accused of a terrible crime and, though innocent, has no means of
proving it.

has an old wound lingers on, never properly healing (and thus eventually
causing a temporary reduction of Endurance).

has their supplies and food stores diminished prior to the winter,
resulting in them going on without provisions.

comes down with a disease or a seemingly incurable affliction.

Is injured.

is poisoned.

Is removed from their job.

Is Banished

sworn enemy discovers the whereabouts of their home.

house or holding is ransacked.

holding is completely lost.

goods are stolen, causing the loss of Treasure points.

##### A Tragedy hits Close to Home

Who: a Loved One, a Relative, an Ally, or a Friend.

Event:

is accused of a terrible crime and, though innocent, has no means of
proving it.

has an old wound lingers on, never properly healing (and thus eventually
causing a temporary reduction of Endurance).

has their supplies and food stores diminished prior to the winter,
resulting in them going on without provisions.

comes down with a disease or a seemingly incurable affliction.

Is injured.

is poisoned.

Dies.

is slain in battle.

breaks trust with the hero, abandoning them.

Is killed.

Is removed from their job.

Is Banished

house or holding is ransacked.

holding is completely lost.

goods are stolen, causing the loss of Treasure points.

Troubling feuds occurs between allies.

##### A Cultural Tragedy Occurs

Who: A Patron, A Cultural Leader (King, Mayor, chieftain, governor,
prime minister, etc…), Lore Master, Religious Leader, Political Leader)

Event

is accused of a terrible crime and, though innocent, has no means of
proving it.

has an old wound lingers on, never properly healing (and thus eventually
causing a temporary reduction of Endurance).

has their supplies and food stores diminished prior to the winter,
resulting in them going on without provisions.

comes down with a disease or a seemingly incurable affliction.

Is injured.

is poisoned.

Dies.

is slain in battle.

breaks trust with the hero, abandoning them.

Is killed.

Is removed from their job.

Is Banished

house or holding is ransacked.

holding is completely lost.

goods are stolen, causing the loss of Treasure points.

Troubling feuds occurs between allies.

##### A Rare Natural Disaster Occurs

A blight afflicts crops, resulting in a bad harvest.

**A Powerful Earthquake** – Extensive damage in a 50-mile radius. Before
and after the earthquake there are smaller tremors that cause slight
damage. Large Cities are heavily damaged, unless the buildings are
specifically hardened against this form of damage. Lakes, Rivers, and
the coastlines can shift. Because the ground has moved, landslides will
destroy trails. Underground structures can be damaged. Mountains and
rock formations will be affected.

There is a large chance (70%) chance fires will start in large cities.

There is an even chance (40%) chance a plague will occur in populated
areas.

**Famine** – Drought or Poor Harvest result in a famine. Farmers and the
people close to the land all know the signs of an impending famine.
Crops wither without producing seed. Animals cannot find water and die.
Poor people turn to crime or go hungry. Food prices will skyrocket up
100x normal. Those who can no longer make an honest living will band
together and scavenge for food. If the military cannot pay soldiers,
they will go outlaw. The population of the area will be reduced by 5%
per month of the famine. There is a 20% chance of this famine continuing
as the event for the following year, especially if source of the drought
or poor harvest is not addressed.

**Fire** - An inferno sweeps across the land. If this occurs while the
players are in a city, then over 50% of the city is consumed in the
blaze (unless buildings are treated for fire disasters). The property of
the players, the people they are staying with, or the place where they
are taking shelter is also burnt (same percentage).

There is a small chance a plague will break out (20%)

There is a minimal chance a famine will follow (10%)

The price of building materials increases 10x for the next Season.

Flood – A Major Flood sweeps the region.

**Plague** – A terrible disease sweeps the land. The plague lasts up to
a year. There is a 40% chance of catching the plague each month spent in
those lands. There is a 60% chance of catching the plague if there is
physical contact with others who are infected. The population is reduced
by 5% every month. Strangers are treated with suspicion by everyone.
People from the plague lands are treated with suspicion by people
outside the plague lands. Traders and merchants will not enter the
plagued lands. Costs for all imports double. Plagues do not hit everyone
all at once, they move through the population based on the movements of
the population. There will be pockets of people who have not yet been
infected who will keep outsiders out in order to stay healthy

##### Under Attack!

### The Burdens of the World

Dwelling at Home

Sojourning Abroad

Travelling

At Home: Little out of the ordinary occurs this year. A hero spends time
with their family, meets up with old friends or undertakes small
projects about their home, but nothing unusual comes to pass.

Burdens: Problems afflict the character’s friends or loved ones and the
hero’s absence is keenly felt. Goods are stolen, debts are called in
early or long forgotten obligations are suddenly brought to the fore.
Friends who have been neglected or ignored may cease to regard the
character favorably.

Without evidence that the hero values their friendship, some ‘friends’
may actively start speaking ill of the hero, or be willing to plot
against them in the future.

##### Rumors of War

##### The Current Leader Goes to War

##### A Major Migration Occurs

### Blessings/Well Guided and Well-Guarded

**Dwelling at Home:** The hero’s sacrifices are publicly acknowledged by
their folk. Someone who the hero helped save in a previous adventure
seeks out the hero to thank them and bestow some personal token of
esteem or gratitude. This Token of esteem or gratitude is either a
possession (a handmade clock) or a benefit (The Barkeep says the hero
may eat for free at his establishment).

**A small windfall comes to the character.** Roll Degrees of Effect
adding Spiritual DM and check the + Column for a number of treasures
added to the character’s possession.

**The character makes a new ally.** Roll Social and check the + Column
for a number, use this number as the Final σ and check the degree of
effect to determine the quality of the ally.

**An old ally becomes a good friend.** Roll Social and check the +
Column for a number, use this number as the Final σ and check the degree
of effect to determine the quality of the good friend.

**Sojourning Abroad:** Little out of the ordinary occurs this year. The
hero spends time in a safe haven, meeting old friends and making new
ones, but nothing unusual comes to pass.

Travelling

At Home:

Not at Home: Little out of the ordinary occurs this year. The hero
spends time in a safe haven, meeting old friends and making new ones,
but nothing unusual comes to pass.

##### An ambassador arrives.

##### A New Political / Social Movement Occurs

##### A New Religious Movement Starts

### A Worthy Year

Dwelling at Home

Sojourning Abroad

Travelling

A loved one recovers from a lingering malady. The hero is forewarned of
treachery or deceit. The character’s efforts on behalf of their folk are
taken up in song. Gifts or rewards totalling 6 Treasure points are given
to the character. The character is ‘adopted’ by a particularly clever
beast. One of the hero’s holdings is significantly improved in some way,
increasing its value.

• The hero provides 1 additional point to the Fellowship pool for the
length of the following Adventuring phase.

• Alternatively, if the hero has a holding, he may choose to roll the
Feat die twice keeping the best result on the next Holding Upkeep roll.

##### Good Fortune

The hero either sires or bears a child. The character becomes the head
of their family or is asked to take on a more prominent role in a family
business. The character is invited to join a power ful organisation,
famous, clandestine, or otherwise. A new romance finds the character
(see Courting and the Fellowship Phase opposite).The hero receives a
large inheritance, reward or bequest, such as a new holding or even a
Precious Object (see the Rivendell supplement).

##### A Rare Natural Phenomenon Occurs

##### A Leader has a child

## Activities

### Interrupted Activities

| Name of the Activity | What you are doing or where you can do it                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Rules                                        |
|----------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|
| Face Death           | When you encounter a situation where death is an immediate and unavoidable outcome, or when you are brought to the brink of death with a chance for recovery or redemption. When you are brought to the brink of death, and glimpse the world beyond. | When Physical Damage Exceeds your threshold. |
| Face Desolation      | When you are brought to the brink of desolation and terror                                                                                                                                                                                            | When Spiritual Damage Exceeds your threshold |
| Face Depression      | When you are brought to the brink of social degradation and destruction.                                                                                                                                                                              | When Social Damage Exceeds your threshold    |
| Face Duress          | When you are brought to the brink of mental exhaustion and autonomous reactions.                                                                                                                                                                      | When Mental Damage Exceeds your threshold    |
| Overcome Destruction | When all your gear, equipment, steeds, vehicles, devices, modules, and other possessions are destroyed or irrevocably lost.                                                                                                                           | Rules TBD                                    |

### Seasonal Activities

#### Base Activities

| Name of the Activity | What you are doing or where you can do it                                                 | Rules                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|----------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Depart               | When you travel                                                                           | See list of Travel activities.                                                                                                                                                            |
| Sojourn              | When you spend time in a community temporarily as a guest, even if it’s your home culture | See list of Sojourn activities.                                                                                                                                                           |
| Dwell                | Stay home and interact with the locals                                                    | See list of Dwell activities.                                                                                                                                                             |
| Recover              | When you spend time recovering from the trails of life.                                   | See list of Recovery Activities                                                                                                                                                           |
| Write your Epilogue  | When you retire from your life as an adventurer.                                          | Become a Patron, Sage, or other character of renown. Requires that you have completed the Name an Heir activity. You may now play as your Heir with your retired character in their role. |
| Training             | Anywhere you have access to a trainer                                                     | Advance one level (Child / Commoner -\> Apprentice -\> Journeyman -\> Master -\> Grand Master -\> Apotheosis -\> Deity)                                                                   |
| Name an Heir         | Anywhere                                                                                  | Select and heir, Gain 1 Spiritual permanently. May only ever be selected once in a character’s lifetime.                                                                                  |
| Court a Spouse       | Anywhere                                                                                  | Gain a Spouse. This activity will monopolize much of the characters time as even the most common and the most elevated have cultural rituals that must be honored.                        |

#### Depart Activities

| Name of the Activity | What you are doing or where you can do it | Rules                                                 |
|----------------------|-------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
|                      |                                           |                                                       |
| Undertake a journey  |                                           | When you travel across hazardous or unfamiliar lands. |

#### Dwell Activities

| Name of the Activity                      | What you are doing or where you can do it | Rules                                                                                                                                                                     |
|-------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Raise Standard of Living                  | Anywhere                                  | Spend 1 Treasure per month to raise your social score by 1 for this and the next phase, 2 Treasure per month to raise your social score by 2 for this and the next phase. |
| Raise Standing                            | Home                                      | Spend Treasure to increase social score in your home culture permanently.                                                                                                 |
| Visit the Treasury of your Folk           | Home                                      | Trade an item in to raise Social Score by one and activate any of the qualities that item possess for cultures that possess such an item.                                 |
| Tend to a Holding                         | Home                                      | Roll Feat die twice and choose best result when resolving effects of a Holding. If you possess an appropriate specialty, complete the Training activity.                  |
| Write a Song, Book, or other Piece of Art | Anywhere                                  | Compose a song to add to company’s list of songs.                                                                                                                         |
| Gain a Cultural Virtue                    | Homeland                                  | Journey back to the homeland of your culture and spend the current phase gaining an additional cultural virtue from your own culture.                                     |

#### Sojourn Activities

| Name of the Activity                               | What you are doing or where you can do it | Rules                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
|----------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Gain a new Trait/New Distinctive Feature/Specialty | Anywhere                                  | Replace old Trait with a new one.                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Meet Patron                                        | Anywhere                                  | Gain counsel/aid from a patron                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Open New Sanctuary                                 | Anywhere                                  | All companions must select undertaking. Current location becomes a sanctuary.                                                                                                                                                                |
| Receive Title                                      | Anywhere you are a foreigner              | You Social Score now applies to to the culture you are in, and you are gifted with a house and / or holdings.                                                                                                                                |
| Research Lore / Search for Answers                 | Anywhere                                  | Lore roll to gain insight or information about your location or about a location your currently location has information on.                                                                                                                 |
| Drumming up Support                                | Anywhere                                  | Raise your social score for one issue for one sixth of normal Treasure cost, for this phase and the next.                                                                                                                                    |
| Go See a Lore-master                               | Anywhere                                  | Reveal a Wondrous Artefact’s Blessings; or a Famous Weapon or Armour’s Banes and the next hidden Quality.                                                                                                                                    |
| Write a Song, Book, or other Piece of Art          | Anywhere                                  | Compose a song to add to company’s list of songs.                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Gain a Virtue                                      | Anywhere                                  | Spend time among the people you are currently living among and gain a cultural virtue from their culture.                                                                                                                                    |
| Gain a Cultural Virtue                             | Homeland                                  | Journey back to the homeland of your culture and spend the current phase gaining an additional cultural virtue from your own culture.                                                                                                        |
| Influence Patron                                   | Anywhere                                  | Convince your Patron to take actions in line with what they would like to see happen in the world but haven't yet made a priority. For example, asking a local king to allow a local lord to repair the road from their town to the Capital. |
| Confer with a Sage                                 | Anywhere                                  | Gain next Lore, Travel, Explore level at half cost in Advancement points. Or acquire one of the Sage's hobby traits.                                                                                                                         |
| Visit the Artificer                                | Anywhere                                  | Custom Modify an item or weapon.                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Guard                                              | Anywhere where guards are needed          | Roll on table see outcome.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Patrol the Wild                                    | Anywhere with wildland                    | Gain benefits of wilderness-lore for next Adventuring phase. If you already have wilderness-lore, gain two benefits from invocation.                                                                                                         |

#### Social Activities

| Name of the Activity                                                    | What you are doing or where you can do it                                                                                                                                                                   | Rules                                                                                                                                                        |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Make a Connection                                                       | When you search out a new relationship or give focus to an existing relationship that you have no connection with. Create a connection by increasing the rank of that connection from unknown to connected. |                                                                                                                                                              |
| Forge a Bond                                                            | When your relationship with a connection is ready to evolve. When you spend significant time with a person or community, stand together to face hardships, or make sacrifices for their cause               | Advance the state of a relationship with a connection by 1 rank.                                                                                             |
| Aid a Connection                                                        | When you act in direct support of a connection.                                                                                                                                                             | Advance the state of a relationship with a connection by 2 ranks.                                                                                            |
| Compel a Connection                                                     | When you try to persuade someone to do something or make them an offer                                                                                                                                      | Success indicates that the connection does as you request, failure indicates that you reduce the state of your relationship with that connection by 2 ranks. |
| Test your Connection                                                    | When your bond with a connection is tested through conflict, betrayal, or circumstance                                                                                                                      | Success indicates that your relationship survives the turmoil of this phase. Failure indicates the number of ranks you will reduce this relationship by.     |
| Hearten - When you socialize, share intimacy, or find a moment of peace | See Recovery Activities                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                                                                              |

##### Courting and the Seasonal Activities

Many adventurers consciously avoid having any close relationships, for
they are all too aware of the dangers that they regularly face,
especially when they stand against the Shadow. Still, friends, families
and a cherished home give a hero something to fight for. Sometimes, a
player may decide that their hero has taken a strong fancy to a
Loremaster character who they’ve met during their adventures. At other
times, perhaps it makes sense for their character to cement an alliance
with a marriage. In either case, a player may decide that the time has
come for their hero to marry.

A player who wishes to engage their character into a relationship,
romantic or otherwise, should discuss it with their Loremaster and
introduce it in the Seasonal phase. If marriage is their intention, they
will have to court the Loremaster character they fancy. Courting is a
formal practice that effectively declares a character’s interest in
taking the courted person as a spouse. The various cultures each have
their own customs about such things. Some require lavish gifts, others
only that both parties wish to get married. Those from noble houses or
who have a sworn lord generally have to ask their lord’s permission in
order to wed.

It usually takes a bit of time and patience to successfully court
someone, especially since the potential partner will doubtless need to
take the hero’s dangerous ‘profession’ into consideration before
deciding.

#### Recover Activities

| Name of the Activity | What you are doing or where you can do it                                                                                                                                                     | Rules                                                                                                                                                         |
|----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Sojourn              | When you spend time recovering within a community.                                                                                                                                            | See Sojourn Activities.                                                                                                                                       |
| Recovery             | Anywhere                                                                                                                                                                                      | All physical and mental damage is healed. Remove one Physical or Mental Condition.                                                                            |
| Hearten              | When you socialize, share intimacy, or find a moment of peace                                                                                                                                 | All Social Damage is healed. Remove One Social Condition.                                                                                                     |
| Resupply             | When you attempt to bolster your readiness.                                                                                                                                                   | Roll against your social. Add one to your Supply levels for each level of success. Failure means no supplies are available.                                   |
| Repair               | When you make repairs to your vehicles, modules, mechanical companions, or other devices. Roll against your Intelligence. Remove one condition from your equipment for each level of success. |                                                                                                                                                               |
| Heal Corruption      | Anywhere                                                                                                                                                                                      | Craft or Song roll. On a success, reduce Spiritual Damage by 2, by 4 on a great success, by 6 on an extraordinary success. May make two rolls in a sanctuary. |
| There and Back Again | Home                                                                                                                                                                                          | Recover all damage at the cost of permanently burning one spiritual point.                                                                                    |

### Monthly Activities – 4 Weeks

| Name of the Activity           | What you are doing or where you can do it | Rules                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|--------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Collect Herbs                  | Anywhere reasonable                       | Roll on table to gather herbs.                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Compete on the Field of Heroes | Anywhere games are held                   | Athletics, Hunting, Bows or Axe roll. Success reduces cost of increasing Standing by 3, great success by 6, extraordinary success by 12.                                                                                            |
| Gather Information             |                                           | When you search for clues, investigate, analyze evidence, or do research                                                                                                                                                            |
| Gather Firewood                | Anywhere with large forests               | Gain benefits of Firemaking for next Adventuring phase. If you already have Firemaking, gain two benefits from invocation.                                                                                                          |
| Go Hunting                     | Anywhere with hunting grounds             | Hunting roll to roll on table.                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Go to Market                   | Anywhere with a standing market           | Spend Treasure to acquire a specific item.                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Climb the Mountains            | Anywhere with mountains                   | Athletics roll to climb mountain and roll on table.                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Delve into the depths          | Anywhere with non-hostile natural caves.  | First time, gain 1 Spiritual or reduce Spirit damage by 2.                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Go Riding                      | Anywhere with Fields and Plains to ride   | Athletics roll to roll on table.                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Sparring/Dueling               | Anywhere where guards are                 | Athletics, Sword or Spear roll (TN 18). Success increases Social Standing among this society by by +1, +2 on great success, +3 on extraordinary success. Failure takes a of Physical and Mental Damage, but gains Experience point. |

### Weekly Activities – 7 Days

Secure an Advantage (Adventure) - When you assess a situation, make
preparations, or attempt to gain leverage

| Name of the Activity | What you are doing or where you can do it | Rules                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|----------------------|-------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Honoring the Fallen  | Anywhere                                  | When one someone close to the team has fallen, gain 1 Spiritual, even if it takes you above maximum.                                                                                           |
| Honor your people    | Among the tombs of the people             | Roll to compose and perform an adhoc song sung to your ancestors. On a success the song is performed, reduce Spiritual Damage by 3, by 6 on a great success, by 9 on an extraordinary success. |
| Feast with the Lord  | Sanctuary that has a Lord                 | Gain benefits of Merry for next Adventuring phase. If you already have Merry, gain two benefits from invocation.                                                                               |

### Daily Activities – 24 hours

### Watch Activities – 4 hours

| First Aid              | When you treat an injury or ailment in the wild                                           |
|------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Resupply               | When you hunt, forage, or scavenge in the wild                                            |
| Make Camp              | When you setup camp to spend some time resting and recovering in the wild                 |
| Prowl                  | When you travel across hazardous or unfamiliar lands with special care. (1 Miles an hour) |
| Adventure              | When you travel across hazardous or unfamiliar lands. (2 Miles an hour)                   |
| Travel                 | When you travel across safe or familiar lands. (4 Miles an Hour)                          |
| Reach your destination | When your journey comes to an end.                                                        |

### Puncti Activities – 15 minutes

Story Telling Actions

| Face Danger (Adventure) | When you attempt something risky or react to an imminent threat                                        |
|-------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Check your Gear         | When you check to see if you have a specific helpful item or resource                                  |
| Negotiate               | When you try to persuade someone to do something or make them an offer                                 |
| Compel                  | When surrendering, coercing your foe to stand down, or negotiating a truce.                            |
| Triage                  | When you attempt to stabilize someone who is injured or sick in the moment.                            |
| Battle                  | Start a fight and it happens in a blur                                                                 |
| Enter the Fray          | When you initiate combat or are forced into a fight and time seems to stop                             |
| Face Danger             | When overcoming an obstacle, avoiding a hazard, fleeing, or evading an attack (without fighting back). |
| React Under Fire        | When you are in a bad spot and take action in a fight to avoid danger or overcome an obstacle          |
| End the Fight           | When you make a move to take decisive action, and score a strong hit                                   |
| Companion Takes a Hit   | When your companion faces physical hardship.                                                           |
| Aid Your Ally           | When making a move to give your ally an advantage.                                                     |

### Ounces (⏱) Activities – 7.5 Seconds

When things really start happening in a Märchen Engine game, time is
broken down into seven and a half second segments called Ounces (⏱),
rounds, or combat rounds, since they're most often used in fights. A
Ounce (⏱) isn't very much time, just long enough for a character to do
something. The types of actions your character can perform during a
round are significant actions, minor actions, extended actions, free
actions, and reactions. During a Ounces (⏱) you can do one of the
following:

- Initiate or continue an extended action.

- Take a significant action and a minor action.

- Take three minor actions and forego taking a significant action this
  turn.

You can perform as many free actions and reactions in a round as you
wish, although the Referee may choose to limit them to a reasonable
number to keep the game moving. See **Chapter 5: Personal Combat** for
more information.

| Strike                | When you have initiative and attack in close quarters. When you are in control and assault a foe at close quarters, or when you attack at a distance                                                                                                                                  |
|-----------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Gain Ground           | When you are in control and take action in a fight to reinforce your position or move toward an objective                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Secure an Advantage   | When acting to outwit or outmaneuver your foe, or setting up another move.                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Take Defensive Action | When you seize an objective in a fight                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Clash                 | When your foe has initiative and you fight with them in close quarters, roll +iron. When you exchange a volley at range, or shoot at an advancing foe, roll +edge. When you are in a bad spot and fight back against a foe at close quarters, or when you exchange fire at a distance |
| Turn the Tide         | when you risk it all, you may steal initiative from your foe to make a move (once per fight)                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Face Defeat           | When you abandon or are deprived of an objective                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Pay the Price         | When suffering the outcome of a move.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Lose Momentum         | When you are delayed or disadvantaged                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Endure Harm           | When you face physical injury, fatigue, or illness                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Endure Stress         | When you face mental strain, shock, or despair                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Endure Embarrassment  | When you face social humiliation, awkwardness, or a lack of social graces                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Endure Hopelessness   | When you face spiritual anguish, gloom, or misery                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Sacrifice a Resource  | When you lose or consume resources                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Withstand Damage      | When your gear, vehicle, or other physical possessions faces a damaging situation or environment                                                                                                                                                                                      |

## Bringing it all Together

### Physical Aspects

#### Muscle Characteristics

**Muscle** represents the overall strength of the being.

##### Ranged Combat Skill

Your Ranged Combat ability check measures your character's ability to
attack and survive in a ranged combat. This skill also allows you to
maintain the general quality of a ranged weapon and to perform general
maintenance to ensure their continued use. It will, however, not allow
you to build, repair, or Jury rig a solution.

Typical Specializations: Artillery, Beam Weapons, Blowpipe, Bolas, Bow,
Crossbow, Dropping, Fast-Draw, Guns, Innate Attack, Lasso, Liquid
Projector, Net, Sling, Spear Thrower, Throwing Art, Thrown Weapon, and
Gunner

Typical Tasks and their Difficulty Modifiers

| Skill             | Ranged Combat                                                                                               |
|-------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Fire a shot at a person who is helpless                                                                     |
| Simple            | Fire a shot at someone who is climbing a wall or tree                                                       |
| Easy              | Fire a shot at someone who is moving away                                                                   |
| Routine           | Fire a shot at someone who is pinned against a wall or corner                                               |
| Average           | Fire a shot at someone who is standing down range                                                           |
| Difficult         | Fire a warning shot at someone's feet                                                                       |
| Very Difficult    | Fire a shot at someone on riding on an animal or in a vehicle                                               |
| Formidable        | Fire into a group of people where you have the chance for friendly fire                                     |
| Heroic            | Fire at someone in the dark                                                                                 |
| Nearly Impossible | Fire at someone who is behind full cover through a crack in that cover                                      |
| Godly             | Fire at someone who is behind full cover through a crack, past a group of your allies all while it is dark. |

##### Athletics Skill

Your Athletics check covers difficult situations you want to do
something that requires physical exertion related to your characters
active strength.

Typical Specializations: Bicycling, Body Sense, Breath Control,
Climbing, Flying, Free Fall, Hiking, Jumping, Lifting, Mount,
Parachuting, Running, Scuba, Sports, Swimming, Throwing, Climbing,
Parachuting, Scuba, Climbing, Scuba, Skating, Skiing, Parachuting,
Scuba, and Zero G

Typical Tasks and their Difficulty Modifiers

| Skill             | Athletics                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|-------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Lift up an object half your weight above your head                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Simple            | Climb a tree with many limbs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| Easy              | Swim while wearing clothing or cloth based armor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Routine           | Jump over a pit wearing non-metallic/encumbering armor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Average           | Row a boat and keeping it in the middle of the current. Climb a rope that is anchored on both sides. Swim in still water. Break through an normal door.                                                                                                                                   |
| Difficult         | Row a boat through rapids. Climb a free hanging rope. Swim in Rough water. Swim upstream against a mild current. Break through an iron reinforced door. Hang onto the reins of a horse, while being drug.                                                                                 |
| Very Difficult    | Push an object 3 times your weight. Climb a wall that has few handholds. Leap from the roof of a building and grab a closeline. Swim against a strong current. Remain above water during a raging storm. Topple a statue. Break through a barred / locked door.                           |
| Formidable        | Pull a stuck carriage out of the river with the aid of others and draft animals. Climb a shear wall. Swim in stormy waters. Leap across a 30-foot chasm. Break through a reinforced door such as one found in a prison. Hold a door shut while the room behind the door fills with water. |
| Heroic            | Climb a shear surface or wall                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Nearly Impossible | Swim in rough waters while wearing full metal armor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Godly             | Swim upstream in rough waters while wearing full metal armor while pulling a rowboat without capsizing the passengers in the rowboat.                                                                                                                                                     |

##### Melee Combat Skill

Melee combat measures your character's ability to attack and survive in
armed melee combat. This skill also allows you to maintain the general
quality of a melee weapon and to perform general maintenance to ensure
their continued use. It will however, not allow you to build, repair, or
jury rig a solution. Melee weapons can be improvised. This skill allows
you to use acquire an improvised weapon.

Typical Specializations: Axe/Mace, Broadsword, Cloak, Fast Draw, Flail,
Force Sword, Force Whip, Garrote, Jitte/Sai, Knife, Kusari, Lance,
Main-Gauche, Melee Weapon, Monowire Whip, Parry Missile Weapons,
Polearm, Rapier, Saber, Shield, Shortsword, Smallsword, Spear, Staff,
Tonfa, Two-Handed Axe/Mace, Two-Handed Flail, Two-Handed Sword, and Whip

| Skill             | Melee Combat                                                                                                                                      |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Sharpen your knife at the beginning of the day. Oil and wrap a weapon to keep it from getting rusted. Strike a Foe who is Helpless                |
| Simple            | Return a weapon to working order after a battle. Strike a foe that's prone on the ground.                                                         |
| Easy              | Strike someone sitting in a chain with their back turned. Use an attack of opportunity when someone is moving away from you.                      |
| Routine           | Use a weapon as a tool. Flank foes that you outnumber.                                                                                            |
| Average           | Use a heavy hammer or axe to bash a door down. Fight with someone who they are evenly matched with                                                |
| Difficult         | Purposefully break a melee weapon out of combat. Strike someone in the fog, mist, or smoke                                                        |
| Very Difficult    | Dig a hole through a clay wall or in the ground with a weapon. Parry a heavy and larger weapon with a smaller weapon (two handed axe vs. cudgel.) |
| Formidable        | Scavenge an abandoned weapon and return it to working order.                                                                                      |
| Heroic            | Hit someone in the dark                                                                                                                           |
| Nearly Impossible | Break metal armor with a common one-handed weapon                                                                                                 |
| Godly             | Break metal armor with a stick, twig, or reed.                                                                                                    |

#### Agility Characteristics

**Agility** represents the overall flexibility and grace of movement of
the being.

##### Stealth Skill

Make a Stealth check when you attempt to conceal yourself from enemies,
slink past guards, slip away without being noticed, or sneak up on
someone without being seen or heard. You must be out of sight of those
you intend to deceive when this skill check is made.

Typical Specializations: Shadowing, and Forward Observer

| Skill             | Stealth                                                                                            |
|-------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Hide and seek games as kids. For example, hide under a bridge while the others are not watching.   |
| Simple            | Move quietly enough not to awaken a sleeping human                                                 |
| Easy              | Follow someone through a busy market                                                               |
| Routine           | Lose a tail from the average beat cop.                                                             |
| Average           | Find and set up a good place to ambush the stagecoach                                              |
| Difficult         | Shadow an animal through the woods                                                                 |
| Very Difficult    | Find and set up a good place to ambush the stagecoach on an open road in the middle of the desert. |
| Formidable        | Shadow a predator through its preferred terrain.                                                   |
| Heroic            | Hide in plain sight                                                                                |
| Nearly Impossible | Blend in and disappear while the center of attention on stage                                      |
| Godly             | Vanish while you are the center of attention of trained observers.                                 |

##### Acrobatics Skill 

Your Acrobatics check covers your attempt to do something that will
exert yourself physically related to your grace and dexterity. Examples
of this might be trying to stay on your feet in when you're trying to
run across a sheet of ice, balance on a tightrope, or stay upright on a
rocking ship's deck. You might also need a Acrobatics check to see if
you can perform acrobatic stunts, including dives, rolls, somersaults,
and flips.

Acrobatics, Aerobatics, Aquabatics, Escape, Gymnastics, Contortionist

| Skill             | Acrobatics                                                                                                                                              |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Walk across a wide plank of wood                                                                                                                        |
| Simple            | Catch a small object in your and as it falls                                                                                                            |
| Easy              | Walk across a moss-covered tree that crosses a river. Walk across an icy surface, stay oriented during turbulence. Land safely on rough terrian         |
| Routine           | Juggle common objects                                                                                                                                   |
| Average           | Avoid getting burnt from a raging campfire. Walk along a narrow ledge. Swing from one side of the road to another on a close line and land on your feet |
| Difficult         | Copy the movements of a religious ceremony or a social dance. Cross a rope bridge swinging wildly.                                                      |
| Very Difficult    | Contort your body into a small space. Walk across a tightrope in a circus. Leap over and slide under an enemy in combat.                                |
| Formidable        | Escape manacles by contorting your wrists                                                                                                               |
| Heroic            | Dodge a melee attack without any combat training.                                                                                                       |
| Nearly Impossible | Walk across a thin rope                                                                                                                                 |
| Godly             | Walk across a strand of silk in a the middle of a raging storm                                                                                          |

##### Sleight of Hand Skill

Whenever you attempt an act of legerdemain or manual trickery, such as
planting something on someone else or concealing an object on your
person, make a Sleight of Hand check. You might also need a Sleight of
Hand check to determine whether you can lift a coin purse off another
person or slip something out of another person's pocket.

Typical Specializations: Sleight of Hand, Filch, Holdout, Lockpicking,
Panhandling, Pickpocket, Holdout

| Skill             | Sleight of Hand                                                                                                                                         |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Get a key into a stuck lock                                                                                                                             |
| Simple            | Perform a simple card trick                                                                                                                             |
| Easy              | Palm a coin, Pick a simple lock, Jam a simple trap. Perform any task that requires finesse                                                              |
| Routine           | Disable a simple wire trap                                                                                                                              |
| Average           | Pick the pocket of someone on a busy street. Pick a regular lock. Disarm the average trap. Escape from tight ropes. Secure a prisoner                   |
| Difficult         | Pick the lock found on a strong box. Disarm a complex trap                                                                                              |
| Very Difficult    | Pick the pocket of someone on a near-empty street. Pick a lock made by a master locksmith. Disarm a trap made by a Master. Escape high quality manacles |
| Formidable        | Palm an object off a merchants table into your bag while being watched                                                                                  |
| Heroic            | Playing the Cup and Ball game with Glass cups and glowing balls and still fooling the victim.                                                           |
| Nearly Impossible | Remove a money pouch from a money belt that is worn under the victims small-cloths.                                                                     |
| Godly             | Remove a money pouch from a money belt that is worn under a watchful victims small-cloths who knows you are going to steal from them                    |

#### Stamina Characteristics

**Stamina** represents the overall ability that being can push
themselves physically.

##### Drive / Ride / Pilot Skill 

Whenever you attempt to ride a horse for a long period of time or over
rough terrain, pilot a boat down a raids or a busy river, or operate a
method of transportation in any way that is taxing in any way you will
need to make a Drive / Ride / Pilot roll to stay on the task and
successfully arrive at your destination.

Typical Specializations: Mount, Riding, Freight Handling, Airshipman,
Battlesuit, Bicycling, Boating, Crewman, Driving, Freight Handling,
Piloting, Seamanship, Shiphandling, Spacer, Submarin, Submariner,
Teamster

| Skill             | Drive / Ride / Pilot                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|-------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Get on your mount in a hurry. Sail a river boat down a placid river. Drive a cart down a quiet road.                                                                                                                                |
| Simple            | Ride your mount as it swims, flies, or otherwise travels through a medium that is not its primary medium of travel. Maintain your vehicle or mount. Drive overland in a vehicle with no adverse weather conditions.                 |
| Easy              | Ride your vehicle or mount for extended periods of time. Pilot a ship on calm seas. Drive a vehicle through bushes or a low hedge.                                                                                                  |
| Routine           | Transition from moving quickly into chasing or charging. Pilot a boat through rapids. Travel overland during adverse weather conditions.                                                                                            |
| Average           | Perform simple tricks. Regain control of a vehicle after it has spun out of control and is no longer being affected by the thing causing you to lose control. Race a chariot.                                                       |
| Difficult         | Jump from a height onto or into your seat on your mount / vehicle. Pilot your vehicle in stormy conditions at sea. Drive a vehicle off road.                                                                                        |
| Very Difficult    | Perform tricks, jumps, and abrupt maneuvers while moving quickly. Secure cargo for rough transport. Control a vehicle to ensure that cargo remains secure during transport. Jump a motorcycle from the freeway to an offramp below. |
| Formidable        | Take control and ride another vehicle or animal that is not under control or that is untamed. Escape a whirlpool or rogue wave. Cross a deep river with a strong current in a cart or wagon.                                        |
| Heroic            | Saddle an intelligent animal or vehicle that does not want to be saddled. Drive a coach across a deep body of water (by converting it to a boat)                                                                                    |
| Nearly Impossible | Sail or pilot a vehicle on treacherous terrain it wasn't made for (a rowboat in a storm or a 2 wheel drive passenger vehicle in a swamp).                                                                                           |
| Godly             | Sail or pilot a vehicle on terrain that doesn't make sense. For example, Row a boat up a hill. Drive a 2 wheeled passenger vehicle under a lake.                                                                                    |

##### Ruggedness Skill 

Make a Ruggedness check when you attempt to Force open a stuck, locked,
or barred door, break free of bonds, push through a tunnel that is too
small. You might also need a Ruggedness check to see if you can hang on
to a wagon while being dragged behind it, tip over a statue, or keep a
boulder from rolling.

Typical Specializations:

| Skill             | Ruggedness                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Take one shot of alcohol and not be affected                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Simple            | Resist the effects of dysentery after eating infected food.                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Easy              | Tomb Rot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Routine           | Withstand the effects of one dose of poison.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Average           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character if they have received exposure to the skill and are not encumbered in any way. This is the work of an apprentice or someone with exceptional latent talent. |
| Difficult         | Resist the effects of a venereal disease, if exposed.                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Very Difficult    | Withstand Snake Venom                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Formidable        | Remain sober after drinking hard alcohol for an extended period or after drinking a portion of an exceptionally strong drink designed to inebriate people                                                                                                     |
| Heroic            | Remain upright and stick your landing in a ready position to react after tumbling down the side of a steep incline.                                                                                                                                           |
| Nearly Impossible | Win a drinking contest and then find your way home safely without first resting                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Godly             | Win a drinking contest against a known drunk and a dance contest against a professional dancer. At the same time.                                                                                                                                             |

##### Unarmed Combat Skill 

Your Unarmed Combat ability check measures your character's ability to
attack and survive in an unarmed combat.

Typical Specializations: Boxing, Brawling, Judo, Karate, Sumo Wrestling,
Wrestling

| Skill             | Unarmed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Wrap your hands and arms to ensure they do not get damaged in a fight. Strike a Foe who is Helpless                                                                                                                                                           |
| Simple            | Apply basic first aid that ensure that bruising to muscles and bones do not take perment damage after a fight. Strike a foe that's prone on the ground.                                                                                                       |
| Easy              | Strike someone sitting in a chain with their back turned. Use an attack of opportunity when someone is moving away from you.                                                                                                                                  |
| Routine           | Flank foes that you outnumber. Use your arms and legs to break branches or pieces of wood.                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Average           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character if they have received exposure to the skill and are not encumbered in any way. This is the work of an apprentice or someone with exceptional latent talent. |
| Difficult         | Wrestle with someone who they are evenly matched with.                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Very Difficult    | Purposefully break someone's arm out of combat. Strike someone in the fog, mist, or smoke                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Formidable        | Parry a bladed weapon with your hands while only taking minimal damage.                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Heroic            | Hit someone in the dark                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Nearly Impossible | Break metallic armor with a punch or kick.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Godly             | Break metallic armor with a touch                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |

### Mental Aspects

#### Intellect Characteristic

**Intellect** represents the overall ability of the being to mentally
understand the world around them.

##### Social Sciences Skill 

Your Social Science check measures your ability to recall lore about
historical events, legendary people, ancient kingdoms, past disputes,
recent wars, and lost civilizations.

Typical Specializations: Accounting, Economics, Finance, Law, Market
Analysis, Psychology, Military Science, Intelligence Analysis,
Interrogation, Occultism, Criminology, Law, Literature, Public Speaking,
Teaching, Writing, Politics, Teaching, Anthropology, Archaeology,
Cartography, Criminology, Economics, Political Science, Geography,
History, Law†, Linguistics, Literature, Paleontology, Philosophy,
Psychology, Sociology, Theology, Smuggling, Writing

| Skill             | Social Sciences                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Understand common superstitions                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Simple            | Interpret the practices a group of people uses to bury their dead                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Easy              | Know proper etiquette of a people group as recorded in their histories. Recall widely known information; identify common people, places, objects, or symbols                                                                                                  |
| Routine           | Identify a landmark and its importance                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Average           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character if they have received exposure to the skill and are not encumbered in any way. This is the work of an apprentice or someone with exceptional latent talent. |
| Difficult         | Recall the legends from history. Recall more obscure or specific information; identify uncommon people, places, objects, or symbols                                                                                                                           |
| Very Difficult    | Recall truly esoteric or precise information; identify rare people, places, objects, or symbols                                                                                                                                                               |
| Formidable        | Identify a famous person using by their burial marker, tombstone, or other obscure information about them. Recall information that is known only by a privileged few; identify exceedingly rare people, places, objects, or symbols                           |
| Heroic            | Forecast the weather based on historical patterns                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Nearly Impossible | Understand the lineage and ethnicity of someone based on observation only                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Godly             | Identify a common person using by their burial marker, tombstone, or other obscure information about them. Discover an ancient secret, no longer known to any mortals.                                                                                        |

##### Life Sciences Skill 

A life sciences check lets you try to stabilize a dying companion or
diagnose an illness as well as allow you to recall other important
information about living organisms.

Typical Specializations: Poisons, Bioengineering, Pharmacy, Diagnosis,
Medical, Esoteric Medicine, Epidemiology, First Aid, Hypnotism,
Pharmacy, Physician, Surgery, Veterinary, Brain Hacking, Biology,
Physiology, Herb Lore, Biology, Farming, Gardening, Herb Lore,
Naturalist, Paleontology, Herbal Pharmacy, and Forensics

| Skill             | Life Sciences                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Bind the wounds of someone who is bleeding                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Simple            | Treat someone with Dysentery                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Easy              | Perform First Aid and understand what is wrong with them. Recall widely known information; identify common fauna or flora                                                                                                                                     |
| Routine           | Stabilize and treat an injury so normal healing may begin                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Average           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character if they have received exposure to the skill and are not encumbered in any way. This is the work of an apprentice or someone with exceptional latent talent. |
| Difficult         | Recall more obscure or specific information; identify uncommon fauna or flora                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Very Difficult    | Treat an average virtual, bacteria or other germ agent disease. Know about rare local plants and animals and how to identify them. Recall truly esoteric or precise information; identify rare fauna, or flora                                                |
| Formidable        | Treat someone with the Bubonic Plague or another difficult germ agent. Recall information that is known only by a privileged few; identify exceedingly rare fauna, or flora                                                                                   |
| Heroic            | Perform CPR on someone who has been unconscious for seven minutes. Treat someone with an extremely hazardous germ agent such as Ebola.                                                                                                                        |
| Nearly Impossible | Attend to someone in critical condition who has died of physical body trauma                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Godly             | Reattach limbs, set broken bones, and grow them with herbal remedies and simple tools                                                                                                                                                                         |

##### Physical Sciences / Survival Skill 

Your Physical Sciences check measures your ability to recall lore about
terrain, the weather, and natural cycles as well as perform mathematical
operations. You might be asked to make a Survival check to navigate and
find a path within a given environment, follow tracks, hunt wild game,
guide your group through frozen wastelands, identify signs that owlbears
live nearby, predict the weather, or avoid quicksand and other natural
hazards. This skill is also used in urban environments to survive on the
streets and to live within that environment.

Typical Specializations: Astronomy, Chemistry, Geology, Mathematics,
Metallurgy, Meteorology, Naturalist, Paleontology, Camouflage, Fishing,
Hiking, Mimic Animal & Bird Sounds, Naturalist, Navigation, Prospecting,
Survival, Tracking, Weather Sense, Forensics, Streetwise, Urban Survival

| Skill             | Survival                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Hunt pigeons, Rats, and Mice within a city                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Simple            | Go Fishing with supplies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Easy              | Dorage for roots, and berries in the wilderness                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Routine           | Build a shelter out of tree limbs, grass, and leaves                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Average           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character if they have received exposure to the skill and are not encumbered in any way. This is the work of an apprentice or someone with exceptional latent talent. |
| Difficult         | Construct an improvised weapon                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Very Difficult    | Track a small animal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Formidable        | Track the passing of a single person through wild                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Heroic            | Find a source of water in the deep desert                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Nearly Impossible | Construct a fire in a blizzard                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Godly             | Construct a fire under water                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

#### Reasoning Characteristics

**Reasoning** represents the overall ability of the being to adapt and
manipulate the information they get from the world around them.

##### Engineering Skill 

Your Engineering check measures your character's ability to apply
technology to build, modify, and repair devices. You might also need an
Engineering check to see if you can reverse engineer a Dwarven chest,
repair a broken crossbow, or disarm a trap. Almost every trade, craft,
or occupation that requires someone to build something will be making a
Engineering roll to determine their level of success.

Typical Engineering Skills: Architecture, Armorer, Battlesuit, Bone
Carving, Carpentry, Computer Operation, Cooking, Diving Suit,
Electrician, Electronic Warfare, Media Operations, Electronics,
Electronics Repair, Engineer, Explosives, Flint Knapping, Hazardous
Materials, Hobby Skill, Housekeeping, Jeweler, Knot-Tying,
Leatherworking, Lockpicking, Machinist, Masonry, Mechanic, NBC Suit,
Pottery, Professional Skill, Sculpting, Security Electronics, Sewing,
Smith, Traps, Typing, Vacc Suit, and Woodworking

| Skill             | Engineering                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|-------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Something that is automatically done                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Simple            | Requires a minimum level of competence or a bit of luck to accomplish.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Easy              | Requires a minimum level of competence or a bit of luck to accomplish.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Routine           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character with natural aptitude.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Average           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character if they have received exposure to the skill and are not encumbered in any way. This is the work of an apprentice or someone with exceptional latent talent.                                                                                   |
| Difficult         | Generally anything that takes actual training. This is the skilled work of a professional doing what they are paid to do. Include anything beyond the capabilities of the average person without aid or exceptional talent. Even with a bit of training and skill you still need some luck to pull it off (or maybe some specialized training). |
| Very Difficult    | Even with a bit of training and skill you still need some luck to pull it off (or maybe some specialized training). Include anything beyond the capabilities of the average person without specialized aid or exceptional talent.                                                                                                               |
| Formidable        | Achievable only by especially talented individuals. Nobody else should even bother trying. This is on the level of superstars.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Heroic            | Achievable only by the most trained, experienced, and talented superstars, and they probably still need help to pull it off. This is a once or twice in a lifetime feet. You are the best at this in the world.                                                                                                                                 |
| Nearly Impossible | An epic feat on which legendary tales are based on. The named masters of a skill come from acts such as these. You will be in the history books.                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Godly             | Can't be done without assistance unless you're basically a demigod.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |

##### Insight Skill 

Your Insight check decides whether you can determine the true intentions
of a creature, such as when searching out a lie or predicting someone's
next move. Doing so involves gleaning clues from body language, speech
habits, and changes in mannerisms.

Typical Specializations:

| Skill             | Insight                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
|-------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Something that is automatically done                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Simple            | Requires a minimum level of competence or a bit of luck to accomplish.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Easy              | Requires a minimum level of competence or a bit of luck to accomplish.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Routine           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character with natural aptitude.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Average           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character if they have received exposure to the skill and are not encumbered in any way. This is the work of an apprentice or someone with exceptional latent talent.                                                                                   |
| Difficult         | Generally anything that takes actual training. This is the skilled work of a professional doing what they are paid to do. Include anything beyond the capabilities of the average person without aid or exceptional talent. Even with a bit of training and skill you still need some luck to pull it off (or maybe some specialized training). |
| Very Difficult    | Even with a bit of training and skill you still need some luck to pull it off (or maybe some specialized training). Include anything beyond the capabilities of the average person without specialized aid or exceptional talent.                                                                                                               |
| Formidable        | Achievable only by especially talented individuals. Nobody else should even bother trying. This is on the level of superstars.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Heroic            | Achievable only by the most trained, experienced, and talented superstars, and they probably still need help to pull it off. This is a once or twice in a lifetime feat. You are the best at this in the world.                                                                                                                                 |
| Nearly Impossible | An epic feat on which legendary tales are based on. The named masters of a skill come from acts such as these. You will be in the history books.                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Godly             | Can't be done without assistance unless you're basically a demigod.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |

##### Investigation Skill 

When you look around for clues and make deductions based on those clues,
you make an Investigation check. You might deduce the location of a
hidden object, discern from the appearance of a wound what kind of
weapon dealt it, or determine the weakest point in a tunnel that could
cause it to collapse.

| Skill             | Investigation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Something that is automatically done                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Simple            | Requires a minimum level of competence or a bit of luck to accomplish.                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Easy              | Identify a particularly obvious secret/coded message left by someone you know. Communicate a simple idea with an intelligent creature you don't share a language with, discover the true nature of a low-level illusion or farce.                             |
| Routine           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character with natural aptitude.                                                                                                                                      |
| Average           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character if they have received exposure to the skill and are not encumbered in any way. This is the work of an apprentice or someone with exceptional latent talent. |
| Difficult         | Identify a typical trap, determine time, or cause of death of a recently deceased creature, estimate the material worth of an item, discover the true nature of a standard farce or illusion.                                                                 |
| Very Difficult    | Identify a well-hidden trap, object, or area. Forge a document or identify a forged document. Discover the true nature of a well planned and skilled misdirection or illusion                                                                                 |
| Formidable        | Identify a magically-hidden trap, object, or area. Discern the purpose and process of a complicated device or system. Determine the integrity of a structure, construct, or formation and identify any exploitable weak points                                |
| Heroic            | Achievable only by the most trained, experienced, and talented superstars, and they probably still need help to pull it off. This is a once or twice in a lifetime feet. You are the best at this in the world.                                               |
| Nearly Impossible | An epic feat on which legendary tales are based on. The named masters of a skill come from acts such as these. You will be in the history books.                                                                                                              |
| Godly             | Can't be done without assistance unless you're basically a demigod.                                                                                                                                                                                           |

#### Acuity Characteristics

**Acuity** represents the overall ability of the being to harmonize
conflicts in their understanding by pushing themselves mentally.

##### Traditions Skill 

| Skill             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|-------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Something that is automatically done                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Simple            | Requires a minimum level of competence or a bit of luck to accomplish.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Easy              | Requires a minimum level of competence or a bit of luck to accomplish.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Routine           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character with natural aptitude.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Average           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character if they have received exposure to the skill and are not encumbered in any way. This is the work of an apprentice or someone with exceptional latent talent.                                                                                   |
| Difficult         | Generally anything that takes actual training. This is the skilled work of a professional doing what they are paid to do. Include anything beyond the capabilities of the average person without aid or exceptional talent. Even with a bit of training and skill you still need some luck to pull it off (or maybe some specialized training). |
| Very Difficult    | Even with a bit of training and skill you still need some luck to pull it off (or maybe some specialized training). Include anything beyond the capabilities of the average person without specialized aid or exceptional talent.                                                                                                               |
| Formidable        | Achievable only by especially talented individuals. Nobody else should even bother trying. This is on the level of superstars.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Heroic            | Achievable only by the most trained, experienced, and talented superstars, and they probably still need help to pull it off. This is a once or twice in a lifetime feet. You are the best at this in the world.                                                                                                                                 |
| Nearly Impossible | An epic feat on which legendary tales are based on. The named masters of a skill come from acts such as these. You will be in the history books.                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Godly             | Can't be done without assistance unless you're basically a demigod.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |

##### Perception Skill 

Your character's Perception check lets you spot, hear, or otherwise
detect the presence of something. It measures your general awareness of
your surroundings and the keenness of your senses. For example, you
might try to hear a conversation through a closed door, eavesdrop under
an open window, or hear monsters moving stealthily in the forest. Or you
might try to spot things that are obscured or easy to miss, whether they
are orcs lying in ambush on a road, thugs hiding in the shadows of an
alley, or candlelight under a closed secret door.

##### Formal Sciences Skill 

Your Formal Science skill is used when you are attempting to understand
any formal system such as logic, mathematics, statistics, information
theory, game theory, or decision theory. This skill is also used in
conjunction with another skill when someone wishes to advance the craft
of that other skill formally.

| Skill             | Formal Sciences                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Play a common board game and enjoy yourself                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Simple            | Play and win a card or board game against someone who is unfamiliar with the game                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Easy              | Fix the outcome of an animal fight                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Routine           | Play and win chess, go, or other game against someone of the same mental acuity and skill level as you.                                                                                                                                                       |
| Average           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character if they have received exposure to the skill and are not encumbered in any way. This is the work of an apprentice or someone with exceptional latent talent. |
| Difficult         | Guess the number of marbles in a jar                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Very Difficult    | Fix the outcome of a boxing match                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Formidable        | Play and fix a game of chance against someone who has considerably more mental acuity and skill then you.                                                                                                                                                     |
| Heroic            | Guess the next card to be drawn in a deck                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Nearly Impossible | An epic feat on which legendary tales are based on. The named masters of a skill come from acts such as these. You will be in the history books.                                                                                                              |
| Godly             | Can't be done without assistance unless you're basically a demigod.                                                                                                                                                                                           |

### Social Aspects

#### Manners Characteristics

**Manners** represents the overall ability of the being to socially
understand the world around them

##### Style Skill 

Your style determines how well you can understand the mind of the public
or a given audience to delight them with a dress, a painting, a
sculpture, a poem, or any other form or artistic pursuit that produces
some sort of cultural artifact.

| Skill             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|-------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Something that is automatically done                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Simple            | Requires a minimum level of competence or a bit of luck to accomplish.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Easy              | Requires a minimum level of competence or a bit of luck to accomplish.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Routine           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character with natural aptitude.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Average           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character if they have received exposure to the skill and are not encumbered in any way. This is the work of an apprentice or someone with exceptional latent talent.                                                                                   |
| Difficult         | Generally anything that takes actual training. This is the skilled work of a professional doing what they are paid to do. Include anything beyond the capabilities of the average person without aid or exceptional talent. Even with a bit of training and skill you still need some luck to pull it off (or maybe some specialized training). |
| Very Difficult    | Even with a bit of training and skill you still need some luck to pull it off (or maybe some specialized training). Include anything beyond the capabilities of the average person without specialized aid or exceptional talent.                                                                                                               |
| Formidable        | Achievable only by especially talented individuals. Nobody else should even bother trying. This is on the level of superstars.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Heroic            | Achievable only by the most trained, experienced, and talented superstars, and they probably still need help to pull it off. This is a once or twice in a lifetime feet. You are the best at this in the world.                                                                                                                                 |
| Nearly Impossible | An epic feat on which legendary tales are based on. The named masters of a skill come from acts such as these. You will be in the history books.                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Godly             | Can't be done without assistance unless you're basically a demigod.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |

##### Performance Skill 

Your performance check determines how well you can delight an audience
with music, dance, acting, storytelling, or some other form of
entertainment.

| Skill             | Performance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|-------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Convince yourself you are a good person, and you are worth it                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Simple            | Whistle or sing a popular song in tune                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Easy              | Tell a funny story or joke and have it be entertaining                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Routine           | Retell a famous story in front of an audience                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Average           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character if they have received exposure to the skill and are not encumbered in any way. This is the work of an apprentice or someone with exceptional latent talent.                                                                                   |
| Difficult         | Generally anything that takes actual training. This is the skilled work of a professional doing what they are paid to do. Include anything beyond the capabilities of the average person without aid or exceptional talent. Even with a bit of training and skill you still need some luck to pull it off (or maybe some specialized training). |
| Very Difficult    | Even with a bit of training and skill you still need some luck to pull it off (or maybe some specialized training). Include anything beyond the capabilities of the average person without specialized aid or exceptional talent.                                                                                                               |
| Formidable        | Achievable only by especially talented individuals. Nobody else should even bother trying. This is on the level of superstars.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Heroic            | Achievable only by the most trained, experienced, and talented superstars, and they probably still need help to pull it off. This is a once or twice in a lifetime feet. You are the best at this in the world.                                                                                                                                 |
| Nearly Impossible | An epic feat on which legendary tales are based on. The named masters of a skill come from acts such as these. You will be in the history books.                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Godly             | Can't be done without assistance unless you're basically a demigod.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |

##### Etiquette Skill 

Your character's ability to say the right thing at the right time to any
person.

| Skill             | Etiquette                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Act with common graces among a group of your peers.                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Simple            | Act in such a way as to not stick out in a crowd of your peers                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Easy              | Act with common graces among a group of people who are not of your class so as not to attract attention                                                                                                                                                       |
| Routine           | Socially interact with people and leave a pleasant impression without backgrounds / social standing getting in the way.                                                                                                                                       |
| Average           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character if they have received exposure to the skill and are not encumbered in any way. This is the work of an apprentice or someone with exceptional latent talent. |
| Difficult         | Socially interact with people and leave a pleasant impression even though they know your background / social standing demands other reactions.                                                                                                                |
| Very Difficult    | Entice and convince someone of a given proposition outside your Social Class even though they know your baackground / social standing demands other reacitons.                                                                                                |
| Formidable        | Achievable only by especially talented individuals. Nobody else should even bother trying. This is on the level of superstars.                                                                                                                                |
| Heroic            | Achievable only by the most trained, experienced, and talented superstars, and they probably still need help to pull it off. This is a once or twice in a lifetime feet. You are the best at this in the world.                                               |
| Nearly Impossible | Seduce someone who knows you don't share compatible sexual values.                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Godly             | Can't be done without assistance unless you're basically a demigod.                                                                                                                                                                                           |

#### Personality Characteristics

**Personality** represents the overall ability of the being to conform
their own actions to create the outcomes they want.

##### Deception Skill

A Deception check determines whether you can convincingly hide the
truth, either verbally or through your actions. This deception can
encompass everything from misleading others through ambiguity to telling
outright lies. Typical situations include trying to fast-talk a guard,
con a merchant, earn money through gambling, pass yourself off in a
disguise, dull someone's suspicions with false assurances, or maintain a
straight face while telling a blatant lie.

| Skill             | Deception                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Lie to your spouse and make them believe it                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Simple            | Bluster and blather your way out of responsibility                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Easy              | Use innuendo to say one thing and mean another thing                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Routine           | Engage in Wordplay to appear smarter                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Average           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character if they have received exposure to the skill and are not encumbered in any way. This is the work of an apprentice or someone with exceptional latent talent. |
| Difficult         | Blend into a crowd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Very Difficult    | Bluff your way into a dinner party                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Formidable        | Understand secret languages without training in the skill                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Heroic            | Appear innocent in front of a professional interrogator                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Nearly Impossible | Lie to your parents and make them believe it                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Godly             | Lie to someone about an observable fact or something about themselves and have them believe it.                                                                                                                                                               |

##### Persuasion Skill

When you attempt to influence someone or a group of people with tact,
social graces, or good nature, the GM might ask you to make a Persuasion
check. Typically, you use persuasion when acting in good faith, to
foster friendships, make cordial requests, or exhibit proper etiquette.
Examples of persuading others include convincing a chamberlain to let
your party see the king, negotiating peace between warring tribes, or
inspiring a crowd of townsfolk.

| Skill             | Persuasion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Convince a hungry person to eat food you bought for them.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Simple            | Convince a child to take candy from you                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Easy              | Calm a troubled person. Persuade a city guard to do their job well. Convince a governmental official you want to help them.                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Routine           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character with natural aptitude.                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Average           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character if they have received exposure to the skill and are not encumbered in any way. This is the work of an apprentice or someone with exceptional latent talent.                               |
| Difficult         | Convince someone that you are of another caste / social class then the one you actually are. convince a group of thugs to leave you in peace. Convince a friend your idea is better than their idea.                                                                                        |
| Very Difficult    | Convince a group of people to use a limited resource the way you want them to. Talk your way past a steward to talk to the property owner. Inspire a group of townsfolk who are milling about. Negotiate peace between warring parties that want peace, but don't know how to proceed.      |
| Formidable        | Stir up slaves or plebs to revolt against their task masters (not all will listen). Convince a mob boss you are worth more alive than dead. Convince someone to share a secret they are not to share with you.                                                                              |
| Heroic            | Stir up the villagers or slaves to revolt against their task masters and have all of them form an angry mob that marches on the plantation owner’s home. Convince guards that even though you don't have an invitation and you are not on their list, you are suspose to be at The Company. |
| Nearly Impossible | Convince the Greek kings to make war on Troy now that Paris has stolen Helen of Sparta. Convince King Priam and Queen Hecuba of Troy that Alexander / Paris's idea of stealing Helena was a good idea and support him.                                                                      |
| Godly             | Convince a spirit to share their true name with you. Convince a dragon to tell you the secret location of its horde                                                                                                                                                                         |

##### Intimidation Skill

When you attempt to influence someone through overt threats, hostile
actions, and physical violence, you might be asked to make a
Intimidation check. Examples include trying to pry information out of a
prisoner, convincing street thugs to back down from a confrontation, or
using the edge of a broken bottle to convince a sneering vizier to
reconsider a decision.

| Skill             | Intimidation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Convince a child to run                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Simple            | Bully your way to the front of a line                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Easy              | Insinuate violence through force of presence and words. Scare a coward into handing over something of small value                                                                                                                                             |
| Routine           | Cause innocent people to cow before you in a public place                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Average           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character if they have received exposure to the skill and are not encumbered in any way. This is the work of an apprentice or someone with exceptional latent talent. |
| Difficult         | Shove or push someone out of your way. Get information out of an uncooperative captive. Convince thugs to back down.                                                                                                                                          |
| Very Difficult    | Convince the police to look the other way this time. Make a government functionary sign an arbitrary document.                                                                                                                                                |
| Formidable        | Make a threatening gesture to force a guard to abandon their post. Stop a mob in their tracks. Cause a creature who is larger and stronger to flee.                                                                                                           |
| Heroic            | Force an undefeated rival to kneel before you to kiss your boots                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| Nearly Impossible | Force a king or high priest to abandon their post for their crimes                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Godly             | Force a king or high priest to abandon their post for your crimes.                                                                                                                                                                                            |

#### Identity Characteristics

**Identity** represents the overall ability of the being to harmonize
conflicts in the society they exist in by pushing themselves socially.

##### Bureaucracy Skill 

Bureaucracy is used when you need to understand the bureaucratic
structures of group and how they can be used to create the outcomes you
need. This can bet how the local politican work, or law enforcement can
be incentivized or the rules of churches or other formalized social
structures of a corporation or social group.

| Skill             | Management                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Write a strongly-worded letter to a your villages chief magistrate about poor living conditions in your village                                                                                                                                               |
| Simple            | Understand local laws and how they may impact your own criminal wrongdoing                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Easy              | Requires a minimum level of competence or a bit of luck to accomplish.                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Routine           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character with natural aptitude.                                                                                                                                      |
| Average           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character if they have received exposure to the skill and are not encumbered in any way. This is the work of an apprentice or someone with exceptional latent talent. |
| Difficult         | Identify the standard or banner of a house, region or faction                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Very Difficult    | Translate ancient writings into the common tongue                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Formidable        | Write a strongly-worded letter to the chief-magistrate of your region about poor living conditions in your village.                                                                                                                                           |
| Heroic            | Achievable only by the most trained, experienced, and talented superstars, and they probably still need help to pull it off. This is a once or twice in a lifetime feet. You are the best at this in the world.                                               |
| Nearly Impossible | An epic feat on which legendary tales are based on. The named masters of a skill come from acts such as these. You will be in the history books.                                                                                                              |
| Godly             | Can't be done without assistance unless you're basically a demigod.                                                                                                                                                                                           |

##### Animal Handling Skill 

When there is any question whether you can calm down a domesticated
animal, keep a mount from getting spooked, or intuit an animal's
intentions, you might need an Animal Handling check. You also make an
Animal Handling check to control your mount when you attempt a risky
maneuver.

| Skill             | Animal Handling                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Groom an undomesticated creature classified as an Animal                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Simple            | Shoe a horse or groom a domestic animal                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Easy              | Teach a simple trick to an animal, like fetch, sit or lay down. Calm a domesticated animal, stabilize a dying creature outside of combat, diagnose a common ailment                                                                                           |
| Routine           | Rustle up a flock of sheep without a sheepdog                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Average           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character if they have received exposure to the skill and are not encumbered in any way. This is the work of an apprentice or someone with exceptional latent talent. |
| Difficult         | Calm a frightened horse. Calm a wild but otherwise peaceful animal, intuit an animal’s emotional state, set a broken bone, perform a complex maneuver while mounted, stabilize a dying creature in the middle of combat, diagnose an uncommon ailment         |
| Very Difficult    | Break a young domesticated horse. Intuit a hostile animal’s next action, control an untrained mount, diagnose a rare ailment                                                                                                                                  |
| Formidable        | Calm a frightened stampede of kine. Calm a dangerous wild animal, diagnose magical and divine ailments                                                                                                                                                        |
| Heroic            | Break a wild horse for riding                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Nearly Impossible | Groom an undomesticated wild beast                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Godly             | Harness and ride a unwilling monster                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

##### Leadership Skill 

Your character's ability to inspire others to become the best versions
of themselves.

| Skill             | Leadership                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Trivial           | Incite peasants to violence in the wake of a doom, curse, or other form of spiritual influence                                                                                                                                                                |
| Simple            | Convince a close friend to lift their spirits in the wake of harm                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Easy              | Spread rumors and news among crowds of people                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Routine           | Use Inspiring others in combat while you are obviously Wounded                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Average           | Requires a bit more competence to accomplish. Can be completed more often than not by a character if they have received exposure to the skill and are not encumbered in any way. This is the work of an apprentice or someone with exceptional latent talent. |
| Difficult         | Convince your flock to change their principles in the name of their god                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Very Difficult    | Command a military campaign to besiege a stronghold                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Formidable        | Uplift a congregation who’ve lost their faith in their god                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Heroic            | Convince Humanoids who were once your enemies to fight alongside you                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Nearly Impossible | Incite peasants to violence in the wake of a miracle                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Godly             | Lead a group of unbelievers into hell to rescue a lost soul                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

### Spirituality Aspects

#### Skepticism Characteristics 

**Skepticism** represents the overall ability of the being to manipulate
the spiritual powers as laws of nature

##### Arcana Skill 

Arcana takes the scientific method and applies it to the spiritual
realm. A Gnostic would focus on understanding the knowledge and theory
of how something worked, while an arcanist would focus on making a
workable system that predicts outcomes. It is skeptical of magic being
personal or aligned to ideals, creatures, or others. It's Math and
Formula. This is the magic of the traditional RPG Mage."

##### Gnosis Skill 

Gnosis is a focus on the spiritual realm that insists that understanding
and knowledge and the abandonment of the physical are the keys to
enlightenment, power, and individual and personal monergism. This is
about the person themselves and achieving enlightenment and escape from
the physical realms. Advanced practitioners may not be fully self
focused. This is the magic of the Guru and the Hermit."

##### Chaos Skill

Chaos magic understands that the universe is unique and every
circumstance needs to be addressed uniquely. Chaosism attempts to
harness the random aspects of a circumstance to the advantage of the
caster. This is the magic of trickster, the bard, and the storm.

#### Faith Characteristics

**Faith** represents the overall ability of the being to trust in the
promises of other beings

##### Theurgy Skill 

This collection of skills is associated with interactions with other
spiritual beings. These are generally rituals and practices that form
the interactions and bargains that are made between those intelligent
creatures that live within the spirit realm and who are capable of
various bargains or contracts. This is traditional Clerical Magic and
warlock magic."

##### Adept Skill

This collection of skills is associated with having an understanding
one's own personal spiritual power and skills. An Adept is someone who
has perfected their understanding of their spiritual strengths and
weaknesses and uses them to enhance their body, mind, and social
interactions. This is the magic of martial arts. It's chief focus is the
caster itself, and not some other ideal or other creature, while a
martial art form may be inspired by some living creature or force of
nature, the goal of the Adept is self improvement and mastery not to
become that creature. "

##### Order Skill 

Order is the study of how the spiritual realms are ordered, predictable,
and outcomes are controlled. This is the magic of the Paladin who is
aligned to dieties or other cosmic powers."

#### Mystery Characteristics 

**Mystery** represents the overall ability of the being to harmonize
conflicts in their understanding of the spiritual realms by pushing
themselves.

##### Metaphysics Skill 

Someone who uses Metaphysics is trying to understand the pathways
through time and space with a focus on knowing the substance, cause, and
identity of the spiritual aspects of reality. This is the magic of the
Oracle, ESP, and Psionics.

##### Animism Skill 

Animism is the understanding that the whole universe itself is imbued
with spiritual power. Someone who uses Animism understands these powers
and uses them to shape the world around them. Some Animists focus on
philosophical ideals such as peace, change, love, honor, etc. and try to
order everything toward increasing that ideal everywhere. Others will
focus on a cosmostological ideals that about the spiritual composition
of matter and attempt to shape and control that. This is the magic of
the Jedi and other non-religiously affiliated paladins. This is the
magic of the artificer and the elementalist.

##### Shamanism Skill 

Shamanism is the understanding of and confirming one's own spiritual
strengths and weaknesses to mirror the Physical, Mental, Social, and
Spiritual aspects of other living creatures. This is the magic of the
Druid or the Shaman. This is also the magic of the shapeshifters and
doppelgangers.

# LEGAL

Copyright © 2023 Ziefen Presse

Märchen Engine and Ziefen Press are trademarks of Ted Tschopp

**Designation of Open Game Content**

All the text in this document is designated as Open Gaming Content,
except for the titles of products published by Ziefen Presse, and the
trademarks “Märchen Engine” and “Ziefen Presse”.

**Designation of Product Identity**

Any title of a product published by Ziefen Presse is designated as
Product Identity.

***The following is an important notice***:

This Product is derived from the Traveller System Reference Document and
other Open Gaming Content made available by the Open Gaming License, and
does not contain closed content from products published by either
Mongoose Publishing or Far Future Enterprises. This Product is not
affiliated with either Mongoose Publishing or Far Future Enterprises,
and it makes no claim to or challenge to any trademarks held by either
entity. The use of the Traveller System Reference Document does not
convey the endorsement of this Product by either Mongoose Publishing or
Far Future Enterprises as a product of either of their product lines.

## Publishing Your Own Materials

As you can see at the beginning of this System Reference Document, all
of the text in this document is designated as Open Gaming Content,
except for the titles of products published by Samardan Press, and the
trademarks "Cepheus Engine" and "Samardan Press".

This means you can copy whatever parts of the Cepheus Engine you want,
add your own content, change the content around, and publish the result.
Note that you will have to comply with the Open Gaming License, as
reproduced at the end of this document. If you don't mention any of the
trademark elements, you don't need to do anything else.

However, you can use the "Cepheus Engine" trademark, under certain
circumstances, to indicate compatibility with this rules system. You
have to follow the requirements of the Cepheus Engine
Compatibility-Statement License (CSL), but if you do, you can state that
your published material "is compatible with the rules of Cepheus Engine"
or, "with the Cepheus Engine rules" or, "with the Cepheus Engine game."
Here are those requirements:

### The Cepheus Engine Compatibility-Statement License (CSL)

1.  You must state on the first page where you mention Cepheus Engine
    that "Cepheus Engine and Samardan Press are the trademarks of Jason
    "Flynn" Kemp," and that you are not affiliated with Jason "Flynn"
    Kemp or Samardan Press™

2.  If you're using the license to commit legal fraud, you forfeit the
    right to continue using the license: specifically, if you are
    claiming compatibility with the rules of Cepheus Engine, the claim
    must not constitute legal fraud, or fraud in the inducement, under
    the laws of the State of Texas. Note that this requirement is almost
    impossible to violate unintentionally-it's largely intended to keep
    me out of trouble, not to restrict legitimate statements of
    compatibility.

3.  You must comply with the terms of the OGL if the terms apply.

4.  Your cover must include the words "House Rules" or "Variant Rules"
    or "Alternate Cepheus Engine Universe" near the title if the
    document is a full, free-standing game that includes modifications.
    Feel free to contact the author if you wish to use a different form
    of disclaimer.

5.  Selling a full version of this game with your house rules
    incorporated into it is perfectly permissible, but you may not sell
    an effectively unchanged copy of the rules for money.

6.  If your document is a private house rules document, not being sold
    for profit or general use, you may scan and use artwork (including
    the cover) from the printed version, published in print under the
    title of **Cepheus Engine Core Rules**, provided that the cover
    contains the words "House Rules," near the title, and that the
    artists are appropriately credited.

7.  Your rights under this CSL cannot be revoked, and are perpetual,
    unless you breach the terms of the license, in which case your
    rights terminate.

8.  If you comply with the above, you may state that your resource is
    "for use with the Cepheus Engine Core Rules", "compatible with the
    core rules of Cepheus Engine" or "with the Cepheus Engine Core
    Rules."

If you have questions about the license, feel free to contact the
author.

## Open Game License Version 1.0A

The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is
Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc. („Wizards‟). All rights
reserved.

1\. Definitions:

***(a) ’Contributors’*** means the copyright and/or trademark owners who
have contributed Open Game Content;

***(b) ’Derivative Material’*** means copyrighted material including
derivative works and translations (including into other computer
languages), potation, modification, correction, addition, extension,
upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form in which an
existing work may be recast, transformed or adapted;

***(c) ‘Distribute’*** means to reproduce, License, rent, lease, sell,
broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise distribute;

***(d) ’Open Game Content’*** means the game mechanic and includes the
methods, procedures, processes and routines to the extent such content
does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement over the
prior art and any additional content clearly identified as Open Game
Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered by this License,
including translations and derivative works under copyright law, but
specifically excludes Product Identity;

***(e) ‘Product Identity’*** means product and product line names, logos
and identifying marks including trade dress; artefacts; creatures
characters; stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue,
incidents, language, artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses,
formats, poses, concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and other
visual or audio representations; names and descriptions of characters,
spells, enchantments, personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and
special abilities; places, locations, environments, creatures,
equipment, magical or supernatural abilities or effects, logos, symbols,
or graphic designs; and any other trademark or registered trademark
clearly identified as Product identity by the owner of the Product
Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open Game Content;

***(f) ‘Trademark’*** means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs
that are used by a Contributor to identify itself or its products or the
associated products contributed to the Open Game Licence by the
Contributor;

***(g) ‘Use’, ‘Used’ or ‘Using’*** means to use, Distribute, copy, edit,
format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material of
Open Game Content;

***(h) ‘You’ or ‘Your’*** means the Licensee in terms of this agreement.

**2. The License:** This License applies to any Open Game Content that
contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content may only be Used
under and in terms of this Licence. You must affix such a notice to any
Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to or subtracted
from this Licence except as described by the License itself. No other
terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game Content distributed
using this License.

**3. Offer and Acceptance:** By Using the Open Game Content You indicate
Your acceptance of the terms of this License.

**4. Grant and Consideration:** In consideration for agreeing to use
this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide,
royalty-free, non-exclusive License with the exact terms of this License
to Use, the Open Game Content.

**5. Representation of Authority to Contribute:** If You are
contributing original material as Open Game Content, You represent that
Your Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have sufficient
rights to grant the rights conveyed by this License.

**6. Notice of License Copyright:** You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE
portion of this License to include the exact text of the COPYRIGHT
NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are copying, modifying or
distributing, and You must add the title, the copyright date, and the
copyright holders name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game
Content you Distribute.

**7. Use of Product Identity:** You agree not to Use any Product
Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility, except as
expressly Licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of
each element of that Product Identity. You agree not to indicate
compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark or Registered
Trademark in conjunction with a work containing Open Game Content except
as expressly Licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner
of such Trademark or Registered Trademark. The use of any Product
Identity in Open Game Content does not constitute a challenge to the
ownership of that Product Identity. The owner of any Product Identity
used in Open Game Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in
and to that Product Identity.

**8. Identification:** If you distribute Open Game Content You must
clearly indicate which portions of the work that you are distributing
are Open Game Content.

The following are classified **as Open Content**: All material in this
product except for the introduction text and the text of the Open Game
License. These are also explicitly marked as “The following is Open Game
Content”.

The following are **not Open Content** and are © 2018 Stellagama
Publishing: Introduction text.

The text of the Open Game license © 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc.

**9. Updating the license:** Wizards or its designated Agents may
publish updated versions of this Licence. You may use any authorized
version of this license to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game
Content originally distributed under any version of this license.

**10. Copy of this license:** You MUST include a copy of this license
with every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute.

**11. Use of Contributor Credits:** You may not market or advertise the
Open Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless You have
written permission from the Contributor to do so.

**12. Inability to Comply:** If it is impossible for You to comply with
any of the terms of this license with respect to some or all of the Open
Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation
then You may not Use any Open Game Material so affected.

**13. Termination:** This license will terminate automatically if You
fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach within
30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All Sub-Licenses shall survive
the termination of this license.

**14. Reformation:** If any provision of this license is held to be
unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent
necessary to make it enforceable.

**15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE**

Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.

High Guard System Reference Document Copyright © 2008, Mongoose
Publishing.

Mercenary System Reference Document Copyright © 2008, Mongoose
Publishing.

Modern System Reference Document Copyright 2002-2004, Wizards of the
Coast, Inc.; Authors Bill Slavicsek, Jeff Grubb, Rich Redman, Charles
Ryan, Eric Cagle, David Noonan, Stan!, Christopher Perkins, Rodney
Thompson, and JD Wiker, based on material by Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook,
Skip Williams, Richard Baker, Peter Adkison, Bruce R. Cordell, John
Tynes, Andy Collins, and JD Wiker.

Swords & Wizardry Core Rules, Copyright 2008, Matthew J. Finch

System Reference Document, Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.;
Authors Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, Skip Williams, based on original
material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.

System Reference Document Copyright 2000-2003, Wizards of the Coast,
Inc.; Authors Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, Skip Williams, Rich Baker,
Andy Collins, David Noonan, Rich Redman, Bruce R. Cordell, John D.
Rateliff, Thomas Reid, James Wyatt, based on original material by E.
Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.

T20 - The Traveller’s Handbook Copyright 2002, Quiklink Interactive,
Inc. Traveller is a trademark of Far Future Enterprises and is used
under license.

Traveller System Reference Document Copyright © 2008, Mongoose
Publishing.

Traveller is © 2008 Mongoose Publishing. Traveller and related logos,
character, names, and distinctive likenesses thereof are trademarks of
Far Future Enterprises unless otherwise noted. All Rights Reserved.
Mongoose Publishing Ltd Authorized User.

Labyrinth Lord™ Copyright 2007-2009, Daniel Proctor; Author Daniel
Proctor.

Labyrinth Lord™ Advanced Edition Companion Copyright 2010, Daniel
Proctor; Author Daniel Proctor.

Adventurer Conqueror King Copyright 2011, Autarch™ LLC; Authors
Alexander Macris, Tavis Allison, Greg Tito, and Ryan Browning.

ACKS Player’s Companion Copyright 2012, Autarch; Author Alexander
Macris.

ACKS Barbarian Conquerors of Kanahu Copyright 2017 Autarch; Author Omer
Joel & Alexander Macris

ACKS Domains at War Copyright 2014, Autarch; Author Alexander Macris

ACKS Heroic Fantasy Handbook Copyright 2017, Autarch; Author Alexander
Macris

ACKS Lairs & Encounters Copyright 2016, Autarch; Author Alexander Macris

ACKS The Sinister Stone of Sakkara Copyright 2015, Autarch; Authors
Matthew Skail & Alexander Macris

Axioms, Copyright 2016-2017, Autarch; Author Alexander Macris et. Al

Dwimmermount Copyright 2013 James Maliszewski, Author James Maliszewski,
Alexander Macris & Tavis Allison

Lamentations of the Flame Princess: Weird Fantasy Role-Playing Copyright
2011, LotFP; Author James Edward Raggi IV

Basic Fantasy Role-Playing Game Copyright 2006-2008, Chris Gonnerman.

Castles & Crusades: Players Handbook Copyright 2004, Troll Lord Games;
Authors Davis Chenault and Mac Golden.

Castles & Crusades: Monsters Product Support Copyright 2005, Troll Lord
Games.

Akrasia’s Sword & Sorcery rules Copyright 2009, Blain Neufeld.

Crypts & Things Copyright 2011-2016 Paul Newport.

Outer Veil, Copyright 2011 © Spica Publishing: Authors Omer Golan-Joel
and Richard Hazlewood.

Cepheus Engine System Reference Document, Copyright © 2016 Samardan
Press; Author Jason "Flynn" Kemp

Cepheus Engine’s ‘70s 2D6 Retro Rules’, Copyright © 2017 Zozer Games,
author Paul Elliott

Clement Sector Core Setting Book 2.0 Copyright 2016, Gypsy Knights Games
LLC

These Stars Are Ours! Copyright © 2016, Stellagama Publishing; Authors
Omer Golan-Joel, Josh Peters, and Richard Hazlewood.

Cepheus Light © 2018, Stellagama Publishing; Authors Omer Golan-Joel and
Josh Peters.

Low Tech Weapons © 2018 Zozer Games; Authors Paul Elliott and Ian Stead.

Darwin's World Copyright ©2002, RPGObjects; Authors Dominic Covey and
Chris Davis.

Mutant Future™ Copyright ©2008-2010, Daniel Proctor and Ryan Denison.
Authors Daniel Proctor and Ryan Denison.

Sword of Cepheus, Copyright © 2019 Stellagama Publishing, Authors Omer
Golan-Joel, Richard Hazlewood, and Josh Peters.

DCC RPG, copyright © 2012 Goodman Games, all rights reserved, visit
www.goodman-games.com or contact info@ goodman-games.com

Märchen Engine, Copyright © 2023 Ziefen Presse, Author Ted Tschopp.
